The Esquimaux . A Tale . Printed by J. Darling , Leadenhall-Street , London . The Esquimaux ; or , Fidelity . A Tale . In Three Volumes . By Miss Emily Clark , Grand-Daughter of the late Colonel Frederick , and Author of Tales at the Fireside , Banks of the Douro , Poems Dedicated to Lady Lonsdale , etc. etc. A faithful heart its ample store Can more than eastern treasures pour ; ― ― ― its price is known To pure and noble souls alone ! It lends the lip a richer glow Than Persian rubies can bestow . V Vol. I London : Printed at the Minerva Press for A. K. Newman and Co. Leadenhall-Street . 1819 . The Esquimaux . Chapter I So man his fellow-man should cheer , Whatever the clime that gave him birth , For we're but brother pris'ners here , Sprung from one common parent — earth . It was on one of the finest summer mornings that are known in the island of Newfoundland , and in the month of June , that Rose Douglas , her brother , and sister Jane , were busily engaged in constructing a bower . They had fixed on a pleasant opening , where a great number of trees had been felled . It fronted the sea , and was surrounded with groves of the spruce fir , and intermingled with creeping plants and wild shrubs . Ponto , their faithful dog , lay stretched at his ease near them , and was of that fine and noble species peculiar to this island . General Douglas , their father , had embarked , with his wife and family , from Quebec , in a sloop of war . A very ill state of health obliged the general to resign a lucrative situation he held in North America ; he hoped , therefore , for the sake of those dearer to him than himself , to receive benefit when he arrived in England , from the mild salubrious air of Devonshire . A residence of several years in the West Indies , and in difference climates , had injured a constitution naturally strong , and a soft air was more beneficial for his health than the severity of a winter at Quebec . The cheapness of provisions in the west of England was likewise another recommendation , as it would be an advantage , from the contracted state of his present finances . In a retired valley , embosomed in a wood of many years ' growth , and five miles distant from any town in Devonshire , was an ancient solitary mansion , surrounded with a few acres of ground appertaining to it , though formerly a very large estate belonged to the house . This was now the property of the general , in right of Mrs. Douglas , his wife ; and to this place he intended to retire on his landing in England . General Douglas was descended from one of the first families in Scotland , and began the world with a good fortune , beside his commission ; but a generous unsuspecting nature made him too easily a prey to the artful , coldhearted , and designing . Thus , when he married the honourable Miss Treharne , who was as poor as himself , he found he had little more than his sword to depend on . But , courageous in the cause of love as he was brave in the field , he loved too well to despair , and by his judicious conduct , his cool and steady courage , he gained the admiration of his brother-officers . His superiors esteemed him , and his advance in the army was rapid ; yet , with all this success , he found it difficult to support the rank of a general officer , as he had little more remaining than his pay . A numerous family , of whom three only were now living , was a heavy expense , but , by strict economy , the general and Mrs. Douglas succeeded in maintaining a good appearance ; and being universally respected , the truest harmony , the most unbounded confidence , subsisted between them , and they never regretted , in any scene or situation , however trying , that they had risked friends , fortune , every thing , from their attachment to each other . The general had a brother , residing in a remote part of Scotland — a bachelor , old , rich , and avaricious . He was several years the general's senior ; and though he well knew his embarrassments , would not assist him in the most trifling degree . If he could have been attached to any one , the general would have had the first place in his regard : but , alas ! his affection centred in his treasures — they were brothers , wife , children — all , to his sordid mind . But general Douglas endured this with the fortitude of an upright mind . At his death he knew he should inherit the estates ( if he withheld his personal property ) , and with that consolatory reflection he was resigned . The Enchanter sloop of war , in which the Douglas family had taken their passage , was commanded by captain Burton , an acquaintance of the general's . The ship was to touch at the island of Newfoundland , to make spruce beer for the crew to drink , who were rather in an unhealthy state , and severely afflicted with the scurvy , having been for three years chiefly at sea , where they had encountered dangers most severe , with many hardships and privations . They anchored in a small unfrequented bay , which they preferred , as they did not wish to be interrupted . On landing , they found this spot quite uninhabited ; and the sailors , by felling a great number of trees , soon obtained materials for building two huts . In one they placed a copper for boiling the spruce , and utensils for the beer , with every necessary requisite for its completion ; and the other hut , on a larger scale , was for the accommodation of the officers and passengers when they came on shore . But the active minds of the young Douglases could not be satisfied with the shelter made by the seamen , and united their efforts to compose a bower , according to their own fancy , which was to be exclusively theirs and their parents , when they made a visit to the land in the day ; for all returned on board at night . Rose was at this period fourteen years old ; but being taller than is usual at that age , with a figure most completely formed , she was generally judged to be seventeen . Her person gave a striking promise of that dazzling beauty which was afterwards so much admired . Rich ringlets of golden hair waved round a face beaming with expressive sweetness and good-humour . The bright lustre of her large hazel eyes was heightened by the beautiful bloom that tinted her cheek . Her features were not strictly regular , but the tout ensemble was so captivating , that no mind of taste thought of asking if that face was regularly handsome . Felix , her brother ( and never was a brother more tenderly loved by a sister ) , was a year older , and promised to be a model of personal elegance and manly beauty . Nor was his heart undeserving of an exterior so perfect . Every virtue and excellence that adorn the human heart glowed in his youthful bosom , and gave the fairest prospect of decided worth . Jane , the youngest , was of a very different disposition , though she had some good qualities , which compensated , in a slight degree , for the excessive violence of her temper . Her spirits were lively and ungovernable ; but when good-nature influenced them , her countenance was animated and pleasing . Her blue eyes sparkled with fire ; and when she laughed , she displayed the whitest and finest teeth ever seen . Ringlets of chesnut hair , resembling glossy silk , clustered on her pretty little head , and her figure promised to be slender and well - proportioned . When their bower was finished , they repaired to it every day , and were sometime visited by their father and mother , who enjoyed the shade and refreshing sea-breezes , though they all found the gnats and other stinging insects very troublesome . If the weather did not allow them to quit the ship , Rose amused herself with drawing different berries , of which there were a great quantity on the island , and some curious butterflies . She likewise painted a curlew , which Felix shot , feeding on the partridge berry , that makes a tart resembling the cranberry . The curlews are excellent eating , and , at this season of the year , were exceedingly plump with feeding on the berries . Felix was a very good shot , and supplied the captain's table with wild geese , ducks , and venison ; for a great many deer inhabited the woods in Newfoundland . The sailors , by fishing , procured the fine cod-fish which frequent this coast in shoals , and they were constantly supplied with fresh provision of the best sort . Felix never penetrated into the woods unattended , on account of the wolves and bears , that might attack a single person , if ravenous , successfully . The voracious wolf or sluggish bear rarely approached any spot where inhabitants were to be found . The black and brown bear were very harmless , and it was only the white bear that caused any apprehension . One afternoon , Rose and Jane , attended by their faithful Ponto , had penetrated alone rather further than usual into the adjacent wood , as Felix was gone on a shooting-party . A most fragrant smell tempted them to proceed , and Jane exclaimed — I am certain there is a strawberry-bed near . They followed the delightful scent , till they reached a bank covered with this refreshing plant in its wild state . The scarlet fruit blushed beside the verdant leaves , and peeped out from the grass that endeavoured likewise to conceal them , but in vain , as its fragrance betrayed their hidden beauties — like modest merit , that unobtrusive would secrete itself , till brought to light by some penetrating liberal eye . Rose and Jane regaled themselves , and at the same time filled a small basket for their father and mother , and the good-natured captain Burton . Ponto likewise amused himself , and they could not avoid smiling to see him nipping the strawberries ; but fearful he would devour too many , they soon drove him away . The basket was quickly filled , and they were returning to the bower , when a low moaning broke on their ear from the stillness that reigned around . A deep groan followed . Ponto whined , raised his ears , and darted forward , while Rose , whose gentle feeling heart was ever alive in the cause of humanity , eagerly but unthinkingly followed the dog to the spot from whence the sound proceeded . Horror and astonishment now overwhelmed her , for , extended on the ground , wounded and bleeding , was a young female Esquimaux Indian . Ponto looked at Rose , wagged his tail , and then lay down by the poor Indian . Jane at this moment came running to them , and assisted Rose to bind up the wound , which was near the shoulder , in the broadest part of the arm , with her cambric handkerchief . She could speak a little broken English , from having associated with British Americans and English people in her childhood , with whom she had been a favourite , and had ever since been delighted when she could meet with them . In her simple sincere manner she expressed her gratitude to the young ladies , but in feeble accents . The Esquimaux had lost a great deal of blood , and was very weak ; and having helped her to rise , they supported her between them , till they reached their arbour , and reposed her weakened frame on a bed of dried spruce fir boughs , and placed her bow and arrows by her side . The sisters then gave her some wine to drink , which was fortunately in the bower , and covering her with a boat - cloak , made signs for her to go to sleep , and that they would watch at the entrance that nothing should disturb her . The wounded Indian seemed glad to be in security and quiet , and sleep soon pressed heavily on her eyelids . Rose and Jane sent a sailor to the ship , to inform their parents of what had passed , and seated themselves on a log of wood , under the shade of a tree near the arbour . When the Esquimaux had remained tranquil about half-an-hour , the sisters went in to see if she slept , and were pleased to observe that her slumbers were as calm as an infant's . Her long shining black hair flowed nearly to the ground ; her skin was a deep brown , and her cheek had the colour of a new-blown rose , from the feverish heat that burned in her veins . Her features were very pretty , and her face as round as an apple . She had not the large head and flat face that distinguishes the Esquimaux , nor their thick lips ; her mouth was small , her lips red as coral , and her form beautifully modelled . The boots that enveloped her feet had slipped off , and discovered the prettiest smallest foot ever seen , and perfectly clean . A plume of white feathers , of a snowy downy texture , and various-coloured beads , decorated her jetty hair , and silver ornaments adorned her ears . Altogether , her figure was interesting and attractive , and quite a novelty to Rose and Jane , who viewed her with admiration and interest . Kamira ( for thus the Indian was named ) was exactly eighteen years old . The treachery of a female mountaineer , who was in love with Losquillo , Kamira's husband , and endeavoured to entice him from her , was the cause of this outrage — the mountaineer being fearful , while Kamira lived , that she should not be quite successful in detaching Losquillo's affection from his wife . Kamira had been married only a few months to Losquillo , who was ardently attached to her , when the artful and wicked Robecka , the mountaineer , strove to seduce the affections of her husband . The tender and gentle Kamira began to be deserted for the bold Robecka , whose tall stature and commanding air seemed as if she demanded homage from the mild and gentle Esquimaux , and her meagre visage and ferocious eye presented a disgusting contrast to the soft countenance of Kamira . Robecka had all the bad qualities of her tribe , united with the vices of European nations . She was immoderately fond of strong drink , and , never satisfied with any quantity she obtained , still craved for more ; constant falsehood stained her lips , and no property was secure where she entered . Kamira was soon informed of the fondness of Robecka for her Losquillo , and was resolved , as much as possible , to follow him whereever he went that she could conveniently accompany him , though she disliked roving about , as was the custom of her country-people , and had rarely left home before . Robecka , though born a mountaineer , was the widow of an Esquimaux , and possessed a worthless , merciless , and revengeful heart . This Kamira knew , and feared that by her constant influence she might render the inoffensive Losquillo as depraved as herself , if she was not also with him to counteract her power ; for Losquillo was of that pliant disposition that , like the reed , bends to every blast . This disposition is pleasing to its possessor and associates , when it meets with amiable characters only , who will not take an unfair advantage ; but most dangerous , when a vicious character gains an ascendancy over a gentle yielding mind . While Kamira remained with her husband , Robecka found her dominion much lessened ; and enraged to madness , she watched in ambuscade for Kamira , when she had separated from her party in pursuit of the deer . Fatigued with the chace , the young Esquimaux had thrown herself on the grass , in a shady spot , to repose her wearied frame , when the sanguinary mountaineer crept unperceived , and before she was aware , stabbed her with a tomahawk . But the blow was not struck with the force and effect Robecka intended — it wounded her arm , instead of her breast , at which she had aimed ; and as the guilty , however daring , are easily alarmed , the approaching voices of Rose and Jane made her afraid to stay and repeat the blow . The wretch now fled from her victim with the utmost swiftness , only regretting that she had not effectually destroyed her , though she hoped she had wounded her so dangerously that she might linger , and , for want of proper assistance , perish from her wounds , or from being destitute of food . At all events , she knew , from her being in a light slumber , that she could not know who struck the blow , and if she recovered , would be ignorant of her assassin . Robecka had just reached their nightly haunts , when she encountered Losquillo and his companions . He asked her if she had seen Kamira ? and Robecka answered , that two hours since she saw her pursuing a fine red deer , but mentioned that it was in a direction quite opposite to where she had left her , wounded and bleeding . No more was thought of this till night was far advanced , and she had not returned to their noctural rendezvous . Losquillo then became very uneasy , and after searching for her several days , though always distant from where she actually was , he resigned every hope of recovering her , and gave credit to a tale related by one of his friends . It was , that Kamira had been destroyed by a white bear , as this friend had seen a white bear , by a stream of water , growling over the mangled body of a female Esquimaux , whose dress and size appeared to resemble Losquillo's lost wife . It was now the period for him and his party to quit Newfoundland . Disconsolate , he quit this island , that had proved so fatal to him , resolving never to land again on the detested spot . But the American Indian soon proved that he was not more constant than the more refined European , and , in a very short time , appeared to console himself with the caresses of the treacherous mountaineer , for the amiable and lovely Kamira's loss . While these events were passing , Kamira slowly recovered from the effects of her wound . Mrs. Douglas , with her husband's and captain Burton's permission , had her brought on board , where she remained till she was sufficiently recovered to go occasionally on shore . She was then allowed to visit the favourite bower with their children , and to attend them when they walked , or strolled in the woods , with Ponto to guard them . Rose improved Kamira in the English language , and taught her to read . The rapidity of her improvement was remarkable , and her attachment to them all seemed to grow with it , but more particularly for Rose , whose gentle method of instruction made her like to learn . Miss Douglas was very proud of her pupil , and it would have made a pretty picture , to have sketched the deep embrowned countenance of the Esquimaux , in her native dress , on her knees , taking a lesson from the fair-haired English girl , in whose face sweetness and benevolence were depicted . But Kamira was very melancholy , though her wound was nearly healed . She had learnt , from two mountaineers who came in a shallop to the bay , that Losquillo had landed at Labrador , and was gone up the country , a great way off , with Robecka , to whom , it was reported , he was now married , as Kamira was supposed to have been murdered by the bears , or eloped with another Indian . When Kamira heard this , she wrung her hands , struck her bosom , and wept . Rose cried to see her poor Esquimaux thus afflicted , and tried to comfort her ; and the general and Mrs. Douglas , who were also present , strove to sooth her . When she was a little recovered , Kamira gracefully addressed them . — Good white people , said she , extending one arm as she spoke , take Kamira to your country , where the great king lives . Let her be your servant and your children's ! Your great king and your country shall then be hers . Never shall the chain you have bound round her heart be broken ; the chain shall be always bright . No people have a quicker feeling of injuries , nor a more grateful rememberance of favours , than Esquimaux Indians . If you wanted food , my bow and arrow should kill the wild deer as it runs , and the birds as they fly in the air ; I would catch the fish too , as it moves in the water , for you . If you required clothing , I would hunt the beasts for their fur , to keep you warm , and bears ' and foxes ' skins I would lay at your feet . As she pronounced these last words , the Indian bowed her head , and kneeled to them . The general raised her up , and Mrs. Douglas , with his approbation , assured her they would be happy to take her under their protection , if she was certain she would be contented at a distance from her native land , and consent to wear an English dress ; that if she agreed to it , she should be dressed in a few days as an Englishwoman . The docile Kamira gladly complied with this request , and from that moment became more cheerful , as her fate was now decided , and she was not in a state of uncertainty , as suspense was painful even to her uncultivated mind . The following day , when Felix was as usual absent , engaged in hunting or shooting , the sisters were sitting with Kamira , in a small grove of birch and mountain-ash trees , almost out of sight of the bower and huts , when a loud scream attracted their attention . They looked around , and saw the sailor-boy , who watched the spruce when boiling in the copper , running with great speed to them . They advanced to meet him , and his face presented the truest picture of terror they had ever seen . What's the matter , Jack ? said Miss Douglas . He was almost breathless with running , and could not speak for a few minutes . — O , ladies ! he then exclaimed , a great black bear has just come into the hut , and went to the pan where the molasses is kept , to put in the beer , and , I dare say , has eat it all up by this time . While he was busy licking it up , I ran out , and was so glad , for I was afraid , when he had pleased his sweet tooth , he would have eaten me up . Rose and Jane burst out a laughing , and Jack was very angry , and shook his head . — You would not have laughed , said he , in a surly tone , if you had been there ; for I am sure he would have devoured you and me , if the molasses had not been in the way to please him . And who knows , when he comes out , but he may fly at us , and tear us to pieces ? for I left my gun in the hut , I was in such a hurry to get out . Ladies — Jack — all go away , a great way off , said Kamira , and with my bow and arrows you see me kill great bear ; Kamira kill many bears , wolves . Rose and Jane ran back to their bower , and Jack got up into a tree , as he judged that it would be too much engaged with the Indian , when she attacked it , to climb after him . Surfeited with its sweet food , the shaggy animal presently came slowly from the hut , and Kamira aimed an arrow so dextrously , that it pierced the rough beast to the heart ; it staggered and fell , but not till another arrow had darted through its head . Kamira aproached when she saw it motionless , and then called to Jack , who descended quickly from his leafy situation . When Rose and Jane perceived him with Kamira , they knew all danger was over , and hastened to the spot . They were delighted , as well as Jack , to see him extended lifeless , as they feared , if he had not been dispatched , he would have made them another visit . Rose now proposed that they should make Jack a present of the bearskin , to sell when he arrived in England , as a little compensation for his fright , and for having been laughed at . Jack was quite pleased , and said he should not mind if another bear came , provided Kamira was there to shoot it , whose skill he much admired . He entertained the ship's crew when he returned on board with the storey , and the wonderful dexterity of the young Esquimaux . The period now expired for the Enchanter sloop of war being stationed at Newfoundland ; and the spruce beer was made , and all ready for sea . Kamira was seen attired as a neat English servant . She was willing to do every thing well , and had such a quick capacity to learn , that Mrs. Douglas found her most useful and attentive . She looked very lovely in her new attire , but not so handsome and interesting as in her native dress . Felix and his sisters expressed their regret at leaving the island where they had passed so many happy hours to their mother , who replied — And you will ever lament and remember it , my dear children . The world is now opening to you ; and though I hope you will ever retain a taste for pure and simple pleasures , yet I fear you will seldom meet with them so unalloyed , as in this sequestered bay , in the island of Newfoundland . A favourable wind now filled the sails of the ship in which they embarked : they weighed anchor , and the vessel cut the waves . Rose stood on the deck , and Kamira sat near her , drooping and sad . When the island and coast of Labrador were no longer distinctly seen , Kamira clasped her hands in agony , stretched them towards the coast , and in the most touching tone of voice , and moving expression , exclaimed — Losquillo ! Losquillo ! o , my own Losquillo ! Chapter II . You sportive elves , as faithful I relate The entrusted mandates of your fairy state , Visit these wilds again , with nightly care ; So shall my cows of all the herd repair In healthful plight to fill the copious pail ; My sheep lie penned with safety in the dale , My poultry fear no robber in the roost , My linen more than common whiteness boast . Cotswouldia . Nothing unpleasant occurred during the voyage of the Douglas family to England ; but when they landed , the general found himself rather more indisposed than usual . They affectionately took leave of captain Burton , who was a good-natured friendly young man , and promised , whenever the duties of his profession would allow , to visit them at Treharne . By slow journeys they passed through Wiltshire , Somersetshire , and Dorsetshire , that general Douglas might not be too much fatigued . Though they admired the counties through which they had passed , yet Devonshire claimed their greatest admiration , from its picturesque and varied views . Every thing was new and delightful to Kamira , who had not time to reflect on any painful subject , her mind being soothed with unchanged kindness , and engaged with a variety of objects . Her young friends were nearly as much entertained as the Indian , for it was so many years since they had been in England , that all was novelty . It was late in the evening when the party arrived at Treharne , and its somber shade , that darkened the adjacent woods , threw a melancholy gloom over the edifice , which was seated in a deep valley . But no melancholy existed in the minds of the younger part of the family . Notwithstanding they derived a great deal of amusement from their journey , yet the idea of reaching their own home was most pleasing , and Rose observed to Felix — There was something in home that was always sweet and agree able . The building appeared to have been intended for a place of great security , and its venerable majestic appearance gave it an air of departed grandeur . It had four turrets , and was encompassed by a deep moat , which extended to the river that flowed in front of the edifice . To enter Treharne Hall , you were obliged to cross this river , that meandered through the valley ; and for that purpose an old drawbridge was let down , which was seldom drawn up . The river was narrow , and a boat kept moored there to row from the Hall , and another on the opposite side , for the convenience of crossing the water . An aged man , with hair as white as silver , and florid complexion , was waiting on the bank of the river to ferry them over . His daughter , a stout , healthy young woman , opened the Hall - door , and conducted them into the mansion , where her father and herself had done their utmost to make it as comfortable as they could . Robin had been an old domestic of viscount Treharne's , Mr. Douglas's father , and was much attached to the memory of his lord . The vestibule was hung with armour , intermixed with statues of some of the ancestors of the Treharne family . The house was furnished in the most antique style ; and they were much entertained with the uncommon height of the candlesticks . The chairs in the eating-room were of gilt leather , and so heavy , that no female hand could lift them . Flowered crimson satin curtains ornamented the drawing-room , to which the rest of the furniture corresponded , and the walls were hung with family pictures . The oaken floor was rubbed till it shone like a looking-glass , and it was so slippery , they could hardly walk on it — Mrs. Douglas proposed purchasing a carpet as soon as possible . But the library was the apartment they most admired , as it appeared to contain an extensive collection of books , and looked into a beautiful shrubbery , filled with rose-trees and a varied number of beautiful shrubs , though they had been neglected for many years , and flourished in all the wild luxuriance of nature , as Robin was too old now to work hard , therefore it was impossible for him to keep all the grounds in perfect order . The family at Treharne had been settled there but a very short time , when they received visits from several ladies and gentlemen , who were resident at that period in the neighbourhood and many miles distant . After they had appeared at their parish church , which was half a mile from the hall , and situated in the large romantic village of Fairfield , they were visited likewise by its most respectable inhabitants . Mrs. Douglas felt additional satisfaction at their having a prospect of society , as she wished Rose , from the timidity of her disposition , to be frequently in company , that she might in some degree conquer it , as her natural diffidence obscured her merit , and she appeared to less advantage . Often was her timid reserve ascribed to a haughtiness and pride , quite opposite to her real character , for no one could be more humble and modest . The affection of this good mother for her children filled her with a thousand apprehensions . It made her look forward to futurity , and ruminate with anxiety on the general's ill state of health . In the event of his death , their circumstances might probably be cruelly embarrassed , and , deprived of their valued protector , they would have to encounter a world which the excessive timidity of Rose little calculated her to meet . Had she possessed the unblushing confidence of Jane , she would not have been so anxious , and hoped her path through life would be less dangerous and painful : yet , while she prepared her mind for whatever misfortunes might be inflicted , she still trusted that the blow she dreaded would be long averted , as the loveliness of her daughters made her tremble for their fate . They had , indeed , a brother , most tenderly attached to his sister , but she expected that in a year or two he would be separated from them . Felix had alreaddy evinced a decided preference for the profession of arms ; and it recalled to the general's mind the youthful ardour that had glowed in his own breast at his age , and therefore he could not oppose his inclination . He wished , with Mrs. Douglas , that Felix had fixed on a pursuit more lucrative and less replete with danger , yet felt an irresistible pleasure at his brave boy evincing the same predilection as he had for a military life . The first visitor they had at Treharne was lady Morrington . She came in a curricle ( she drove herself very well ) , and accompanied by a young emigrant French lady , who was her companion . Her ladyship apologised for lord Morrington's not coming with her , as he was particularly engaged . Rose and mademoiselle dae Rimont were mutually pleased with each other . The countenance of the latter was pleasing and animated ; her figure was very small , but well proportioned , and had she not been marked with the small-pox , she would have been pretty ; and her agreeable lively manners made her preferable to one perfectly handsome , who wanted animation . Mademoiselle dae Rimont laughed , and told Rose , that before they called , she said to lady Morrington — I hope Mrs. Douglas and her daughters are not formal and stiff in their behaviour , as most of the English , for I detest them when they are so . As for the general , I doubt not he is polished and passable , for military men are seldom ceremonious and reserved . — I should like very much , added she , to take a walk in your garden , which , I hear , is very pretty , as your mother and lady Morrington appear to be earnestly engaged in conversation . Rose assented , and mademoiselle dae Rimont followed her and Jane to the moat , where general Douglas had just had a temporary wooden bridge placed across , for the convenience of walking to the garden , as it was more convenient than ferrying over in a boat . The garden had a wide terrace , which commanded a pleasing view , and the most rare , sweet-scented , and beautiful shrubs and flowers , were planted profusely on each side . At the end of the terrace was a walk , shaded with high trees , terminated by a picturesque pond , planted on each side with weeping willows . The terrace sloped down to a lawn rather extensive , with a wall all round . It was concealed with trees , so thick that you could read , work , or walk , without being seen by any one . Here the sisters and mademoiselle dae Rimont strolled . — I wish you may often come to Morrington Castle , said she , as I think you will be amused . It is deliciously situated , bounded on one side by magnificent hills , on the other by the sea , where there is a machine to bathe . My lord has an excellent Italian cook ; and do not think me a glutton for being pleased at having French dishes well dressed every day . His lordship has a great share of vivacity ; the house is constantly full of company , and he will insist on my being always present , as well as the English governess . But I must tell you , ma chere , she continued in a low voice to Rose , for Jane was gone to procure some fruit for her , that there are disagreeable things , as well as agreeable , in the family . Lord Morrington is the only child of the dowager lady Morrington . He is consequently an enfant gâté , and terribly passionate ; he swears and damns every body , if out of humour — but it does not last ; he is then feeling and sorry — altogether very eccentric . Lady Morrington is likewise of a very cheerful disposition , and behaves to me and the governess as if we were her sisters : but my lord and herself have deceived me respecting my situation there . I was to be her companion , as she was acquainted with my parents in France , and to instruct her little girls in French and music , which the governess does not properly understand , and good masters are not to be had in the country ; but I am now desired to teach two boys also , and another just come from school ; a little cousin is likewise introduced at the lessons . What is still more ridiculous , not satisfied with this , when we are without company , lady Morrington makes me read French , and the governess translates it very indifferently , which is quite wearisome ; aet je vous assure quae je m'ennuie beaucoup c'est bien triste . But , to make amends , lady Morrington is lively , gay , and good-natured — elle badine , and says she will get me a good husband , as many agreeable young men visit at the Castle : but one , she will say , is stingy , another worthless , and this one jealous ; and her diverting manner sometime amuses me . At this moment Robin appeared , to inform mademoiselle dae Rimont her ladyship and the carriage were ready . Rose and Jane attended her to lady Morrington , who solicited them to come with their mother , when she returned the visit , which she politely hoped would be soon . Miss Douglas , delighted with her new friend , affectionately wished her good-morning ; and Jane , as she presented the fruit , said she hoped to gather some more for her very shortly . Miss Polly Wizzle , the daughter of the apothecary at Fairfield , was announced the instant after lady Morrington drove off . She was about fifty , affected youthful levity and a youthful style of dress , but appeared very good-humoured , which prepossessed Rose and Jane in her favour . Her face was round and chubby , of a yellow hue , and thickly seamed with the small-pox , but almost constantly on the broad grin , secretly to display a good set of teeth ; this beauty would naturally have been discovered without distorting her countenance incessantly . Her father , mother , and brother , desired their compliments , she told Mrs. Douglas , and would embrace the first opportunity waiting on her and the general ; but her father being now indisposed , her mother was engaged in nursing him , and her brother , Mr. Jeremiah Wizzle , in attending his father's patients . Mrs. Douglas replied , she would be very happy to see them ; and after some desultory conversation , Rose , with the enthusiasm of a young mind , to whom all is new and delightful , expressed how much she was charmed with mademoiselle dae Rimont . I am sorry to hear you say so , Miss , begging your pardon , said Miss Polly Wizzle . Why , you have not known this lady even a few hours , and how can you be so taken with her ? And a Frenchwoman too ! La , bless me ! you must excuse my prejudice , but I never could fancy any foreigners , but , above all , a French person ; they are so deceitful to what English folks are ! Rose was astonished and hurt to hear this opinion of her new acquaintance , and looked dejected . Mrs. Douglas , who knew , from her undisguised expression of countenance , what passed internally , smiled , and thus addressed Miss Wizzle — Forgive me if I cannot coincide with you respecting the deceit of foreigners , and particularly of the natives of France , against whom you seem to be most prejudiced . Politeness and attention are not incompatible with sincerity ; and we ought to feel grateful to those who , by their refined and attentive manners , put us in good-humour with ourselves . I have known some French ladies and gentlemen who have proved the most ardent and sincere friends , and I have known many of my countrymen and women , under a coarseness of behaviour that disgusts those accustomed to good society , conceal a deceitful insincere disposition . But I thank you , Miss Wizzle , for your observations , as I wish my daughter to cheque her propensity to be so easily charmed with every new object , as she will find it dangerous , when she is introduced into the world , and has not her mother to always guide her in the choice of a friend or acquaintance : when she has seen as much of mankind as we have , she will not be so sanguine . Miss Wizzle did not appear pleased at being classed with Mrs. Douglas , who , in fact , complimented her highly by it , as Mrs. Douglas was ten years younger than Miss Polly Wizzle ; but she liked to be associated in every respect with the young people , whose parties she always joined , in preference to the society of those more suitable to her time of life . She was now dressed in deep mourning , and looked very respectable , with her hair thickly powdered , and as white as the sugar on a twelfth-cake . Miss Polly discouraged Rose's sudden partiality for mademoiselle dae Rimont , but proved herself equally weak , by affecting to be quite captivated with Miss Douglas and her sister ; and calling them her sweet young friends , hoped they should frequently meet and walk together . As she was talking in this strain , Miss Jane Douglas said , with great naïveté — Don't be displeased , Miss Wizzle , but I think you are as giddy as Rose , for you seem as much pleased with us as Rose is with mademoiselle dae Rimont . You know that is quite different , my dear , rejoined Miss Polly , with the usual grin ; I am an Englishwoman , and sincere — nothing hollow about me : I am not French . Jane found it difficult to repress an inclination to laugh , as she thought Miss Polly had no reason to fear being taken for a French lady , as her manners were so inferior . She was quite relieved at her rising to take leave ; and when she was gone , diverted herself at her expense . Mrs. Douglas checked her . — She is certainly very ridiculous , Jane , but I shall not allow you to laugh at her , as I think her a good-natured well-meaning woman , and will not have her censured , unless I find any thing in her mind to disapprove . For her prejudices I make an allowance , as she has been educated in a village almost two hundred miles from London . Kamira appeared perfectly happy , and assisted Dolly , Robin's daughter , who was very kind , in doing her work . The Indian quickly learnt every thing that Dolly knew , and was partial to the kitchen department , and most laborious employment , from having been accustomed to violent exercise . Dolly was infinitely pleased , as she preferred waiting on the young ladies and Mrs. Douglas , and working at her needle , which Kamira disliked . Adjoining the kitchen was a small neat housekeeper's room , where Dolly sat with Kamira when their toil was finished . Dolly sometime worked at needlework , and Kamira sung Esquimaux songs , and related storeys of her country , which she described to the wonder-struck country girl , with their sports and customs . Then would Dolly astonish Kamira with tales she had heard from her childhood , of ghosts and hobgoblins most terrific . At the period of this history , the lower class of people in Devonshire , and even the farmers , tradespeople , and others of respectability , were very superstitious , and believed in spirits , witches , and fairies . The fairies they called ferries and piskies ; and Dolly told Kamira there was a field near Treharne , called Ferrie's Field , where you could see the rings in which they danced , and whoever went through that field at night was pisky-led , which meant , that they could not find their way out all night , but kept walking about to discover the stile , and did not , till the sun rose . Dolly said her uncle was pisky-led in that field , and he heard the little ferries laughing at him because he could not find out either stile , as there were two in this field , it being a thoroughfare . Felix and Miss Douglas were passing the housekeeper's room one evening , when they heard Dolly , who had an harmonious voice , singing a very pretty tune . They both went into the room , and asked the name of the song . It is an old country ditty , replied Dolly , that aunt Brownson , the miller's wife , taught me . You will oblige us , said Felix , by singing it again . Dolly , blushing , replied — She was ashamed to sing before a gentleman and lady . Never mind Mr. Felix and Miss Rose , cried Kamira ; Miss Jane would make game , but Mr. Felix , Miss Rose , they not laugh . Tell all about ghosts in white , eyes on fire ; and little ferries dance , and laugh and sing . O , such prit storey that you talk me ! and they make me all fright , and yet like to hear them . I shall be pleased to hear the storeys , said Felix , but I would rather have the song first ; and I know my sister would too . Dolly answered , that she would obey their wishes , but must inform them this song was taken from a true storey , that happened when there were many more ferries than there were then . There used to be a little pisky come to Treharne , and when the maids were clean and industrious , do their work ; but now she seldom came , and she had not seen her , though Robin , her father , had . After apologising for having a cold , which made her hoarse , Dolly at length began . Hecate Peskadoe . In ancient days , when ladies great They turned the spinning wheel , The baron's daughter , Emma fair , She plied the rock and reel . And when her wheel industry turned , The flax she quickly drew , Proud of her child , her mother's love For Emma daily grew . Sweet Emma early rose one morn , The dew was on the grass , To end a task her mother gave , Her other work surpass . To spin the yarn she early rose , Ere gleamed the morning sun ; But wonder struck the lovely maid , Behold , that task was done ! And soft a voice harmonious breathed — My favoured gentle maid , Don't curious be , nor let thy friend Be easily betrayed . Seek not to know : a friend sincere On thee unknown does gaze , And with thy mother's love thou'lt gain Esteem , unenvied praise . Meek is thy temper , kind , serene , Industrious as fair ; And if not curious , shall be named The maiden good and rare . Ingenuous , thy spotless mind , That others ' woes can feel ; Yet I would ach thy artless breast No secret to reveal . For one I knew was pure as thou , With gossips , storeys tell , And soon her tongue , that liked to talk , Did scandal relish well . Nightly I'll turn thy spinning wheel , To prove my friendship true ; Yet diligent thou still may be , And other work pursue . The voice it ceased , and Emma sighed To know this friend so kind ; Her only fault , too curious maid , A restless , prying mind . Inquisitive , for many nights She could not rest or sleep ; At length she thought 'twould be no harm , To slily take a peep . All in the baron's castle slept , The moon shone bright and clear , Imprudent Emma softly creeps , Though trembling , wan with fear . In the great hall her wheel was placed , Which quick a beauty plies , Though tiny was her dazzling form , Of azure blue her eyes . The wings of butterflies composed Her robe of texture rare , A wreath of apple-blossom twined Her light and silken hair . Sweetly she warbled , gaily sung — Ah , little does she know , My pretty mistress , that I'm named Hecate Peskadoe . For her I'll cull the scented flow'r , The ripest fruit that grows ; Emma no curious lady is , Or prattling slander knows . Away , you cares ! nor wound her breast , Of candour , truth , the throne , A virtuous youth , of noble birth , Shall Emma call her own . Forewarned of curiosity Was Emma , never deceived ; My watchful care — The fairy starts , Her figure is perceived . Dim grew the light — a cloud obscured The moon's soft splendid beams ; The warning fairy disappears , Like fleet illusive dreams . No wish could lure her back again , Repentance or device ; But Emma ever loved the faith , Observed her mild advice . Felix and Rose thanked Dolly , and praised her singing and the old ballad , which they thought very interesting , they told her , but could not believe it was taken from a real history . If you don't believe me , I am sure you would believe what aunt says , if you heard her tell all about it . I believe she has seen the baron's daughter , when she was a little girl , and she was as handsome a young lady then as you'd see on a summer's day . Bless you ! I should have sung better if I had got a bit of lemon to suck first ; it is such a good thing for the voice . When cousin Betty comes to see me , I ask her to sing , because she knows hundreds of songs , and she always says , have you a piece of lemon ? If I have , I give it to her , and when she has sucked it , she will begin to sing , till her voice echoes through the house ; you may hear her a mile off . Felix laughed , and said — We are quite satisfied with the tone of your voice . I should not like , Dolly , to hear any one to sing so loud . It is enough to stun a body indeed , replied Dolly ; but it seems fine to hear such a clear voice . Yes , if you were lost in a wood , and wished to be heard , rejoined Miss Douglas ; and pray , Dolly , do not apply to lemon , if it is to have such a noisy effect . I suppose your aunt has left off singing songs now ; but I should like to hear some of her tales . We will walk over to see her tomorrow evening , as we have no engagement , if it is agreeable to you , Felix ; and Dolly must be one of the party , to introduce us to her aunt . Felix replied — I thought we were going to Fairfield , to see doctor Wizzle and his lady ; otherwise I like the plan of visiting aunt Brownson . That is only to be a morning visit , said Rose ; but I forgotten — I have not yet asked my mother's permission . Is it far , Dolly , from Treharne ? Only half a mile to the bottom of the hill where she lives , Miss . Felix and Rose easily obtained leave to visit Dolly's aunt , and Jane requested to join them in their walk the next evening . The following morning Mrs. Douglas , her son and daughters , walked to Fairfield , and directed their steps to doctor Wizzle's house , as he was usually styled . The general rarely accompanied them in these excursions , as he did not like company , his ill state of health preventing him from enjoying any society ; and though he seemed lately a little better , his time was most frequently passed in his library , garden , and in riding on horseback . Doctor Wizzle appeared to be near eighty , and had a plump , good-natured , rosy face . His figure was thick and short , and his wife's tall and thin . She was a very dark woman , and always held her hand to her head , from being troubled with a violent pain in her head continually . The son , a little plain man , with his mother's complexion , was sensible , well behaved , and a good disposition ; but his manners were formal in the extreme — frequently quite ludicrous . Miss Wizzle was visiting in the village , but Miss Rachel , her sister , was present . In person she resembled her elder sister , but was quiet and inoffensive in her manners . When Mrs. Douglas and her children arrived at the apothecary's shop , they were ushered into a parlour , painted dark brown . The Wizzles rose to meet them , and advanced to the door , exclaiming all together — This is a favour indeed ! this is a favour indeed ! The room was so obscure , being at the back of the shop , and painted so dismally , that Mrs. Douglas could hardly distinguish their physiognomy . At length , with great ceremony and compliments , they were seated quietly . So , Miss Jane , said the little doctor , in his shewy played morning-gown , and placing his hands on his knees — so , Miss , you are an American ? O no , sir , Jane replied , we were born in England , and have only resided several years in America . Well , well , I understand , I understand , my dear ; but you have early beheld another part of the world . I have sailed to the American islands , though I have never seen London , or been more than thirty miles from this village , where I first drew breath . I find , maddam , cried Mr. Jerry Wizzle , who always drawled out the word madam ridiculously long and slow , that you enjoyed rational solitude when you first came to Treharne , not shunning human beings as tigers , or courting them as friends . I wish health may shower its blessings on the good general , and peace , maddam , strew his path with flowers . What more can the world give ? You are perfectly correct , sir , replied Mrs. Douglas , diverted with his uncommon formality . At this instant Miss Polly was announced . She had returned the day before from Dawlish , where she had been visiting since she called at Treharne , and was quite enraptured with it . Proudly she shone in all the glory of shining bugles , and a hat loaded with feathers , that waved like those on a horse at a funeral , and seemed adorned for conquest . Dawlish had quite reanimated her and turned her brain ; she could never again endure Fairfield , it was so dull . There were several families of distinction at Dawlish , and a pack of hounds that go out three times a-week ; she often fell in with them in her rides , and had she stayed much longer , she would have been a keen sportswoman . The second morning after her arrival she had a fine view of the Channel fleet , sailing past the place , and from her bedroom could see the finest sight in nature — the sun rising , as it were , from the ocean . Very fine , very fine , Polly , said the good doctor : why , Dawlish has made you poetical ! But , speaking of more common things than the sun , do oblige us , Mrs. Douglas , by drinking a cup of tea here soon , with your son and daughters — I am fond of the company of young people ; for your stay is so short now , we have hardly time to feel our pleasure . The days will lag tediously , maddam , added Jerry , till that time ; but my mind's eye will see you , and my ear retain the sound of your voice ; and I hope I shall behold those daughters of yours , looking as very , very pretty as they do now . For my part , rejoined the doctor , I like to hear Miss Rose laugh , there is something so happy and cheerful in her merry ha , ha . But I cannot think how you amuse yourselves , the Hall stands so very lonely . Do you ever play at cards , as they do in this village , sometime from eleven in the morning till eleven at night ? We are going to act a play , Jane eagerly replied ; it is to be Tancred and Sigismunda . But you would call it burlesquing instead of acting . I am to be the heroine , Felix my love , my mother Osmond , as she will do any thing we ask to entertain us , and Rose is to be Siffredi , in a Welch wig and blue domino . The only tears your tragedy will produce , Miss Jane , answered the doctor , will be tears of laughter , I fancy ; and may you never cause any other ! — they are not afflicting . Felix and his sisters were much pleased with the worthy doctor Wizzle , who shook them heartily by the hand when they left him . In the evening they commenced their walk to Ashwater , where the miller's wife lived . Their way to it was down a long sloping hill , that serpentined , with trees on each side , and the scenery was beautiful . The cottage of the miller , clean white-washed , and the watermill near it , looked very picturesque . Two other rustic habitations were near , and , enveloped in orchards of appletrees , had a rural romantic effect . The banks were covered with wood strawberries , and nut-trees ( intermingled with eglantine and woodbines ) , which promised to produce a plentiful stock of nuts . In the miller's garden were several neat beehives , with thyme and aromatic herbs planted near , and a profusion of flowers , rose-trees , and myrtles , in bloom , were trained to the casements on the first floor ; the roses hung in blushing clusters , and diffused their perfumed odours , and the snowy blossoms of the myrtle gave a spicy fragrance to the evening gale . A sleek cat , who seemed to live in the abode of plenty and quietude , was gravely seated at the cottage-door . Ponto , who was , as usual , with them when they walked out , began to bark at pussy , and dame Brownson made her apperance , to see what was the matter . Felix called off the dog , and Dolly now introduced them to the dame , who was a most respectable-looking old woman , about seventy ; and they all entered the cottage . She wished them to walk into her little parlour , but knowing the dame generally sat in the kitchen , they insisted on remaining there , as they were anxious not to derange her . They admired the oaken dresser , ornamented with old-fashioned china plates , and the best teapot and tea-equipage . A very handsome clock was placed near the door , and an old japan cabinet stood in the corner , filled with punchbowls , glasses , jugs , and china , of an ancient date , that had been handed down , for many generations , to the miller . Dolly now informed her aunt the young ladies and gentleman would be glad to hear her relate some of her wonderful storeys , which had so often entertained her at Christmas time . I am grown too old now , Dolly , to be good for any thing , even to tell a tale — yet many's the one I have amused their grandmamma with . She was a dear good lady , when I lived with her as her ladyship's maid . We were much of a muchness in point of age . Jane jumped up from the wicker chair she was sitting on , and exclaimed — How ! did you ever live with lady Treharne ? and did you ever see our mamma ? Ay , ay , Miss — many's the time , before you were born , or thought of . When I lived with your grandmamma , they did not have such fine ladies for maids as they do nowadays . Miss Douglas is very like my dear mistress ; it's paying you no bad compliment , Miss , so don't blush about it , for your grandmamma was called the beauty of Devonshire . But I believe , poor dear lady ! she died of a broken heart , at her son's turning out so wicked , and using his sister , Mrs. Douglas , very ill . Ah , he is a cruel one ! Excuse me , Miss , for speaking so of your uncle ; but , indeed , your mamma is the flower of the family . How very singular that my mother did not tell us this ! cried Felix . I suppose , young gentleman , it is because it makes her unhappy to talk about it , as he is the same as no relation , since he never comes to see or enquire after his sister or her children ; therefore don't be noticing to her what I have told , as perhaps she would not like the cat to be let out of the bag . But if my mother knew you lived here , she would be glad to see you , I am sure . Why , I can't say , master Douglas ; perhaps it will remind her of scenes best forgotten ; though , God knows , I should rejoice to see the dear lady I have carried in my arms when she was a baby , and I young and strong . Dame Brownson and Felix conversed for a long time on this subject , in which Rose occasionally joined ; but Jane looked cross and discontented . We shall certainly inform my mother of your having known her , and that you lived with lady Treharne , said Mr. Douglas ; but we will have the prudence to avoid repeating your description of my uncle , as we would not , for any consideration , make my dear mother unhappy . That is the reason she often sighs and looks melancholy , which I attributed to my father's frequent illness . But , dame Brownson , exclaimed Jane , in a peevish tone of voice , I wish you would tell me some ghostly or hobgoblin storey . It is too late , replied Felix , we must hasten home , or it will be quite dark before we reach the Hall , and our parents uneasy . No , it won't ; do stay a little longer . I would not have come , if I thought to have been disappointed in hearing something ridiculous . We have heard what is much more interesting — and perhaps it will fatigue Mrs. Brownson ; another time will do as well , and we shall have a good excuse for doing ourselves the pleasure of calling again . You may call by yourself , sir , and she walked , as she repeated these words , in no gentle tone , into the garden . I am sorry , exclaimed Felix , you are so childish , selfish , and rude . Pray excuse her , Mrs. Brownson ; she will know better when she is older , for her heart is not so much in fault as her temper , which cannot endure the most trifling disappointment . I am sorry for her , replied the dame , for how will she go through life with any comfort ? It is seldom that all goes smooth with the best and richest . Ah dear ! she seems of her uncle's temper ; and you , young lady and gentleman , resemble your mamma and lady Treharne in good-nature . Just as dame Brownson finished speaking , they heard a loud exclamation from Jane . She had been peeping into one of the hives , and having disturbed some of the bees , two had stung her on the forehead , which swelled up in a moment . The dame applied some sweet-oil to it , and they wished her good-night , Jane's good-humour not being heightened by this accident . Her brother and sister were sorry for her mishap , but had difficulty to refrain from smiling , she looked so ruefully with this addition to her countenance , which had previously lost all sweetness from her cross temper . As they walked forward , a poor woman was sitting by the side of the road , who you could perceive had been very handsome , though burned with the sun , and dressed like a beggar . A boy of five years old , well dressed , except his shoes , which were in holes , was playing before her . Soon after a sailor on crutches , with one leg , joined them , and bowed to the young ladies and Felix respectfully . Neither asked charity , though they seemed to want it . Something in their appearance moved the compassionate heart of Rose , and approaching , she gave them a few halfpennies . They thanked her with a modest air , and the woman then related their distress . They had already travelled a hundred miles , on their road to a gentleman's house , who respected her husband , and would befriend him and his family . The night before they had slept in the open air , not having money to pay for a lodging , though they had been accustomed to have a good house of their own , well furnished . Her husband had been a sailor , and lost his leg ; in consequence of that misfortune , he worked at a lucrative business , to which he was brought up , and earned two guineas a-week ; but sickness , and the business he was engaged in falling off , they by degrees were reduced to the most distressing penury . Their cruel situation influenced them to undertake this long journey , and they had walked till the poor woman's shoes and stockings , and her son's , were in a dreadfully worn-out condition . Of nine children this victim of affliction had born , this little boy alone was living , and on the road she had been delivered of a dead child . If you were near our house , said Rose , I could give you some shoes better than those , and some refreshment . We will follow you there , replied the woman , if you will give us the direction , my lady . Rose described where Treharne was , and began to walk on very fast , with Felix and Jane , while the unfortunate group followed them at a respectful distance . A little while after they reached home , the sailor , with his wife and child , arrived there . Rose gave them two pair of shoes , a clean pair of stockings for the woman , and some victuals and money , for which they were humbly thankful , and , like people who had seen better days , apologised to Dolly for the trouble they gave her . They all eagerly devoured the food , which proved they were no impostors , and the little boy seemed particularly hungry . Gratefully they thanked Miss Douglas , saying she was the best friend they had known a long time , and pursued their journey with comfort . Mrs. Douglas approved her daughter's conduct , and only lamented their narrow income restrained them from doing more good to these poor people . They had no opportunity of mentioning dame Brownson having been servant to their grandmother , as the general was present all the evening , and they were unwilling to introduce the affair before him . Felix likewise was averse to mentioning an unpleasant subject then , as it might revive painful recollections , and disturb their parents ' respose that night . Jane concealed her chagrin before them , though she could not the accident that had happened . The general told her she must prove herself a soldier's daughter , by learning to despise pain , and feel contempt for the sting of a bee . General Douglas found a great deal of amusement in improving this old mansion , and adjoining grounds . He had the drawbridge removed , which was in such a tottering decayed state , that it was dangerous to walk on ; and all visitors either came in the boat or crossed the wooden bridge at the back of the house . Chapter III . Riches alone the world's attention claim — Cursed be the soul that first revered the name ! Fondness for gold no other fondness bears — No brother's kindness , no parental cares ; Gold bids whole hosts in horrid wars contend ; Through this the good untimely meet their end . But , worse than all , the thirst for gold destroys The bonds of love , and nature's purest joys . The following morning , when the general was engaged in his library , Felix and his sisters repeated the occurrences of the preceding evening . Deep emotion agitated the countenance of Mrs. Douglas , and her eyes were suffused with tears . After the silence of a few minutes , when she had subdued the feelings that oppressed her , she said — I should like exceedingly to see dame Brownson ; she was indeed a very faithful servant to your grandmother , and I shall appoint some time for her to come here , or call on her at her cottage . I rejoice to hear she is so comfortable . It has been , and is now my intention ( on the first day that your father passes from home ) , to relate many circumstances respecting our family , which you are at present old enough to have confided to you . I rely on your discretion , never to speak on the subject ( unless with my permission ) , as it is painful to me to converse on it ; but I have long since resolved to conquer this reluctance , as it is necessary you should be no longger unacquainted with the conduct of your near relation . At present we must think of preparing for our visit to lady Morrington ; I fear she will judge me a stranger to politeness , if I any longer delay it . Mrs. Douglas , accompanied by Felix and Rose , rode to Morrington Castle , it being customary for ladies who had not a carriage to ride very much on horseback , the hills being so steep , that it was fatiguing to walk far . Lord Morrington was with her ladyship , and three dogs lay at his feet ; several of these canine animals were in the hall , and in every room which they passed through , which gave the Castle the appearance of a dog-kennel . Such was his passion for them , that he suffered these animals even in his bedchamber , and her ladyship dared not repine , though it was a severe punishment for her , as she was particularly neat and clean . His lordship was a fine-looking man , good-humoured when not irritated , by contradiction to any of his whims , to show the violence of his temper . He was so partial to the fair sex , that he could not endure a man-servant in attendance on his person . A woman waited on him , called my lord's maid , who officiated as valet , attended him at night , and assisted him to undress ; and when he was ill , was his constant attendant . He often rallied mademoiselle dae Rimont , and told her he would have no ugly woman but herself in the house — in fact , all the females were very good-looking ; and , thus surrounded by women and dogs , he was happy . I hope you had a pleasant ride , Mrs. Douglas , said lady Morrington , and have not met with a disaster similar to that which has befallen mademoiselle dae Rimont ? Your ladyship is certainly in the right to laugh , rejoined the lively French girl . I am of opinion that Mr. Thomson , the gentleman you have wished to give me for a husband , intended to kill me , or he would not have lent me ( whom he knew to be a novice ) so spirited an animal . The horse took fright , and galloped away , without my being able to stop him . I jumped off , being too frightened to cheque it ; and Mr. Thomson is not well pleased , fearful I should spoil his steed , and will not lend it me again , as I had not the good fortune to break my neck . Imagine how ridiculous my appearance must have been , suspended by my habit to the saddle ! Happily the servants were at a distance , as lady Morrington says my legs were very visible . I think you have had a narrow escape , said Mrs. Douglas ; I should not have thought of the ludicrous situation you were in , but of the danger — it makes me shudder . As you are so unskilful , I would advise you never again to attempt riding on horseback — a donkey will be the best conveyance for you ; and , if you should be thrown off , you will not have far to fall . Could you recommend me a governess , Mrs. Douglas ? asked lady Morrington , as I am going to part with mine ; she has not conducted herself lately in a manner I approve . But I feel for the poor wretch , as she will find herself very miserable in any other family . My lord persuades me to be very indulgent , but I do not know any governess , or companion , treated so well as ours . In my opinion , too much attention to such sort of persons is quite unnecessary . His lordship did not notice this speech , as he was engaged in conversation with Miss Douglas ; and her mother replied to lady Morrington , that she was not acquainted with any one of the description she required , being lately returned to England , and having mixed so little in society , adding — You must allow me to differ from you , respecting the conduct to be observed to be a governess or dependant . It is true , some are very vulgar , and of low extraction , possessing indeed shewy accomplishments , but deficient in good manners or solid acquirements . Characters like these ought not to be put on an equality with a lady of cultivated mind , who has been well educated , and is of a good family . O , I do not care a pin for my governess being a gentlewoman , rejoined her ladyship . You astonish me ! said Mrs. Douglas . Is there any thing so dear as one's children ? and can your ladyship support the idea of confiding these beings , endeared to us by nature , to a woman of unpolished manners , and that has not been early accustomed to refined society ? Lady Morrington made some trifling answer to those observations , and Mrs. Douglas judged , from the sentiments she had developed , that her ladyship had a great deal of mean pride . But it ceased to surprise her , when , on her return home , she was informed by her daughter that lady Morrington's origin was very low . Miss Douglas accompanied mademoiselle dae Rimont into the school-room , to see the children , and afterwards to her apartment . Did you observe , said Louisa dae Rimont , how proud her ladyship is ? It is not surprising , when we consider that she was only a servant before she was married to lord Morrington , who has educated and improved her . How different is my lord ! With all his faults , he has no haughtiness , and plays with me as if I was his child . If she were mistress , she would not let me dine at table , and says that a governess , or companion , ought never to make morning visits , and she would be enraged if I did . You see , ma chere , one cannot know people directly , nor indeed for a long time , for I thought lady Morrington very amiable till lately , and now I find it is not all roses . How true is the saying , we must live with one acquaintance to know them truly ! She has frequently , what you call in English , a cross look , and continually answers whatever I say with the uncivil exclamation of nonsense ! in the most ill-tempered tone . It is the governess who has desired to quit the family , as lady Morrington is much vexed at losing her , whom she has used extremely ill . Lady Morrington , before they parted , obtained a promise from Mrs. Douglas , that she would visit her again in three weeks ( with Miss Douglas ) for a few days . Her ladyship expected a large party about that period to assemble and remain a fortnight at the Castle , observing , at the same time , that the general and Felix could ride over every day , as she had not room sufficient to accommodate them . As lady Morrington was one of those deceptive characters who possess only the semblance of good-nature , it is not to be supposed that her attention to Mrs. Douglas proceeded from any prepossession in her favour , or amiable motive , but merely to gain a pleasing addition to her party . Mrs. Douglas was , in society , lively , sensible , and exquisitely well - bred ; she was perfectly handsome , and her daughters improving daily in loveliness , made them a desirable acquisition , more particularly as Mrs. Douglas , though not affluent , was known to be related to one of the most ancient families in England . The general was likewise well born , and his connexions wealthy . Rose Douglas was indeed too young to be introduced into company , but she looked older than she was , and her diffidence and opening charms created indulgence . On their return home , they found the general had rode out , leaving word that he should not return till the evening . Mrs. Douglas judged this was an excellent opportunity for relating many incidents to her children . They all repaired to the library , and sending for Jane , their mother commenced her promised narrative : — It was at a magnificent seat of my father's that I first drew breath , five years after the birth of my brother , the present lord Treharne . When I was of an age to distinguish one object from another , and capable of any attachment , I was partially fond of my brother , as he continually amused himself in caressing and playing with me . He was then a handsome good-natured boy , and did not develop the seeds of those vices so fatal to himself and his relations . The days of my childhood passed like a pleasant dream , which served to make the contrast of succeeding hours more painful . My father inherited but a small patrimony to support the dignity of his station ; yet he did not feel anxious to have this income augmented , as neither my mother or himself was expensive . The first moment they were sensible of the narrowness of their fortune was when my brother George had been two years at college . Heavy bills , which he had incurred contrary to their wishes and advice , were brought in ; yet they had represented to him , when he was sent to Oxford , that if he wished to sustain the appearance of a nobleman and gentleman , he must not be extravagant . Instead of receiving the mild remonstrances of his parents with contrition , George gave way to the violence of passion he too frequently indugled ; and irritating his father , caused my mother to suffer the deepest affliction . Her sweet and gentle disposition could not endure these scenes of indelicate altercation on the part of a son she loved with maternal tenderness . Lady Treharne soothed her husband , who was the best of men and of parents , and was too easily influenced by the wife he loved to pardon him . I was then only eleven years old , and my brother seventeen ; but the fury and disobedience he evinced made an impression never to be obliterated , and first weakened my affection for him , as I truly loved and revered my father and mother . From that instant lady Treharne adopted a more rigid economy , and deprived herself of many comforts , unknown to her husband , that she might be enabled to supply my unfeeling brother with additional money to gratify his profuse propensity . Her ladyship hoped by this method to prevent George from wounding and agitating my father's mind , by running in debt , and even persuaded his lordship to increase his allowance , though very inconvenient to them . By these precautions and deprivations , this excellent mother hoped to save her son from disgrace , and her husband uneasiness . But vain were all her cares to cure a mind depraved by bad company and example . He could not endure the least opposition to his wishes , and was so extremely selfish , that he would not sacrifice any gratification or inclination , however trifling , to please another , not even for that good mother , whose life was constantly embittered to promote his comfort . George had been absent three years on his travels , and I was seventeen when he returned home , accompanied by a gentleman he introduced as his friend . How striking was the alteration vice and dissipation had made in his appearance , though he had only attained the twenty - second year of his age ! A sallow paleness , intermixed with spots of some eruptive humour , had taken place of the manly bloom which gave a tint of health to the fairest skin a man should possess . His figure , graced by personal symmetry , was now disfigured by a distorted limping gait , proceeding from a wound received in his thigh , when engaged in a disgraceful duel ; an unskilful surgeon had improperly managed it , and rendered him for ever lame . If I was shocked , imagine the agonising feelings of his parents , who doted on him , notwithstanding all his faults ; and their emotion deprived them , for some time , of utterance . Alas ! had his figure been alone deformed , and not his mind , they could have endured the reverse with fortitude after the first shock , however melancholy for them to behold thus early the wreck of a fine person . Had this disfigurement originated from any brave or noble action , or in fighting in defence of his country , it would have consoled them ; for too soon did they learn , that those evil propensities which formerly swayed him had increased to an alarming height , with the addition of other criminal faults . On the continent , where gaming is very prevalent , he had acquired that destructive habit , which frequently reduced him to his last sous , and caused him to become considerably in debt . Unfortunately , many persons lent him money , influenced by the excellence of my father's character , whose integrity was well known ; and from the good appearance lord and lady Treharne made , they were generally supposed to abound in wealth . Unfeeling as George was , he was almost distracted when he reflected on the wretchedness of his situation . The selfish usually are acutely alive to their own afflictions , though they cannot pity the sorrows of another . His despair had arisen nearly to frenzy , and he would eventually have destroyed himself , had not one ray of hope darted into his imagination . He was acquainted with a rich vulgar young man , of the name of Muggins , who had endeavoured at intimacy with George , and been neglected by him . His father had acquired an enormous fortune in trade , to which was added the extensive property bequeathed by a relation who had been successful in India . Muggins had scarcely received any education , and associated with none but low people , the influx of wealth and the splendid property in the East Indies having occurred after he was grown up to manhood . Knowing that my brother was the son of a lord , his attentions to him were overpowering , as he had a great deference for persons of rank , from recollecting the lowness of his origin . The idea , therefore , suddenly suggested itself to George , to borrow a large sum of money of Mr. Muggins , and promise to repay it at some future period , or else procure him the hand of his sister in marriage , which , from his ambition to be allied to rank , he was convinced would make him enraptured at such a proposal . In consequence of this scheme , my brother gave so fascinating a description of my beauty , accomplishments , and sweetness of temper , that the foolish young man became quite enamoured of the favourable portrait he drew , without having seen the original , and complied with every request his pretended friend made . George then studied to improve his manners and language , and succeeded in rendering him decently behaved , and his ignorance unsuspected while he remained quiet and said little . He now introduced his hero , hoping success from my youth and inexperience , as the young man possessed a handsome exterior . Not the most trifling remorse did my brother feel at the thought of consigning me to the arms of an ignorant vulgar young man , rather deficient in intellect , though his heart was naturally inclined to rectitude . My father and mother easily discerned , through the flimsy veil of attempted good-breeding , which sat very awkwardly on poor Muggins , that he had been accustomed to inferior society ; many incorrect and mean expressions betrayed him when he spoke with the least energy . They were astonished at their son's selecting such an associate , and pointed out to him that a companion of this description was not respectable , with whom he could never obtain improvement or pleasure . In answer to these observations , George represented that Mr. Muggins had the best heart in the world — had been serviceable to him when abroad , and shown him great civility , which made him anxious to evince his gratitude . A motive so laudable I perfectly admire , replied my father , and am pleased that grateful sentiments should influence your conduct ; yet it is not necessary to be constantly with Mr. Muggins , or to obtrude him so frequently on us . George promised he should be less intrusive : but whenever I walked out with my governess , he was continually on the watch , and waiting to attend me with Mr. Muggins , and seized every opportunity , when I was alone , of introducing him . My brother depended on my good-nature to conceal these interviews from my father , as I was present when lord Treharne expressed his disapprobation of his frequent visits . Mr. Muggins soon became a decided invader of my peace , and pestered me almost daily with letters , in which he declared his passion and offered his hand . Finding I did not notice his proposal , he eagerly declared himself the first moment we were alone , and requested my acceptance of his heart and fortune . To this offer I gave a determined negative , as I was early disgusted with his understanding and manners , so opposite to what I had been accustomed to from infancy . Muggins appeared almost petrified at my resolute rejection of him , and exclaimed — Then Mr. Treharne has completely deceived me ! I should not have presumed to declare my attachment , had he not repeatedly protested and sworn you were disposed to accept me . I cannot imagine , I replied , what could have been my brother's inducement to advance this unfounded falsehood — he who was taught from his earliest recollection how wrong it is to deviate from truth . Though I have little discernment , rejoined Muggins , yet I can easily guess the reason of this behaviour , and shall come to an explanation with him . In the meanwhile , I beg your pardon , Miss Treharne , for being troublesome . Do not go , I entreat , Mr. Muggins , I instantly exclaimed , till you have informed me what you suspect to be the cause of my brother's conduct ; and with great difficulty I at length drew from him the whole storey . Afflicted at the knowledge of my brother's deception , and the effect it would have on my father and mother's peace , if they knew it , I implored Muggins to conceal what had happened , and , after some opposition , obtained his promise . Obliged , for the first time in my life , to have a concealment , I felt melancholy and uncomfortable , which I was obliged to disguise , that my dear parents might not suspect any thing had happened to vex me . How much did I compassionate them for having a son so unworthy ! In the evening , when I was dressing with a heavy heart for the opera , George tapped at the door , and said he wished to speak to me alone , and would wait for me in the library . I hastened to finish my dress , that I might attend him , and found him anxiously waiting for me . I was surprised at the mild tone of voice in which he spoke , and said he was sorry I would not accept the hand of Muggins , as he was passionately fond of me , and , with his immense riches , might make me the happiest of women — You could then , Caroline , he artfully added , indulge those benevolent feelings inherent in your nature , and make your brother truly happy . Probably you may object that he was not born a gentleman ; but reflect , that in England wealth is idolised , and that you are respected by the generality of people according to the strength of your purse . Make but a splendid appearance and keep a good table , and you may be assured of associating with the best society , were you even the offspring of a chimney-sweeper . This may all be very true , I replied , and I am concerned to disappoint your wishes , which it is impossible for me to comply with . I could not love or respect Mr. Muggins , and this is not consistent with my ideas of marriage . I wish to tenderly esteem the man to whom I give my hand , and to consider him as superior to myself in sense and experience , that I may be guided by his better judgement . What romantic stuff ! he loudly exclaimed — what ridiculous sentiments ! You do indeed require somebody to direct you . These ideas will not be proper for the world ; I advise you to retire to a convent , or a desert . I could say with Hamlet , Hie thee to a nunnery ! You will most likely not have such an excellent offer again , of possessing unequalled wealth , and a good-looking man you may manage , but remain the rest of your life a beggarly girl , and end with being a poverty-struck old maid of fashion . Don't flatter yourself that men are eager to marry a baby face , without some substantial addition to it . With these words , uttered with an air of rage and contempt , he abruptly left the room . In his countenance every unworthy passion was depicted , and I was overwhelmed with inexpressible affliction at his worthless conduct and opinions , as I could not , from the ties of nature , avoid being interested for him , with all his errors . Yet my affection was not sufficiently strong to render me guilty of the weakness of sacrificing myself to Mr. Muggins . Independent of my aversion to him , I must acknowledge that I entertained at that period a growing attachment for your father , whose goodness of character , bravery , fortune , and family , added to a fine person , were then unexceptionable . He was at that time a major in the guards , and esteemed and admired by lord and lady Treharne , and of their approbation of my attachment I was certain . Ever since my brother's return to his native country , major Douglas had been on a visit to his elder brother in Scotland , and George had no suspicion of my admiration and regard . While we were thus situated , George , who , notwithstanding my positive rejection of Muggins , still persevered in endeavouring to make him acceptable to me , brought him one day to dinner . A nobleman who chanced to be present was so attentive , and evinced such refined and marked politeness and homage for me , that Mr. Muggins , who unhappily really loved me , was worked up with jealousy to a degree of frenzy . I was informed that he drank an usual quantity of wine after the ladies retired , which had a more pernicious effect , from being very temperate in general . To the extreme confusion of George , he began quarrelling with him , and , during their dispute , disclosed the transaction that had passed , and George's base behaviour , to the company and my afflicted and astonished father . Delicate to excess in every point that concerned his honour or his children's , this unwelcome intelligence pressed heavily on lord Treharne's mind . He was in consequence seized with a dangerous illness , that terminated in a raging fever . From the circumstances that had taken place , my brother's affairs became known , as well as his ingratitude to a parent so worthy of dutiful love ; and his creditors coming forward , threw him into prison , indignant at his want of probity and duty . When lord Treharne recovered from the violence of the fever , with a sense of honour too refined he paid all the debts George had contracted , with the fortune his frugality had saved and destined for me , hoping to be again enabled to save part of his yearly income , to replace my little property . But his constitution was so enfeebled by the fever , caused by the shock it had sustained at discovering my brother's wickedness , that he gradually grew weaker and weaker , and was soon pronounced to be in a rapid decline . The tender attention of lady Treharne to a husband she loved with uncommon tenderness is impossible to be described with justice . She passed her nights without sleeping , watching by his bedside , and never quit him , unless to procure any thing he wished . The pain she felt at seeing him suffer imparted so much anguish , that her health was materially injured , and threatened her own speedy dissolution . At length his sufferings became less acute , and calmly did he close his virtuous life . His last moments were only embittered with regret at quitting the world unable to provide more liberally for my mother and myself : yet it was consoling to his feelings , that , while lady Treharne lived , his jointure would amply provide for us both . He little thought that her sensibility and affection would prevent me from long enjoying the comfort of a mother's love . With difficulty they succeeded in persuading her to quit his breathless form , where she mourned over him who was dearest to her on earth , with all the agony of an affectionate heart ; and , had she lived , would have dedicated her future years to his memory . Thus was I cruelly deprived , by a brother's corrupt principles , of the best of fathers , and my mother of a husband she loved , and who was deserving of her regard . The conflict was too severe , and , six weeks after lord Treharne's decease , she followed him to that peaceful grave , where sorrow cannot afflict the good , or insult reach them , leaving me a miserable and deserted orphan . Subdued with keenest anguish for their loss , I was insensible , for a long time , to any thought of my future destiny . My brother , on the contrary , was remorseless , and only regretted that his extravagance had prevented them from bequeathing him any ready money , and that by their death he inherited the family estates only . My mother had been so good as to sell her jewels , to gratify his profusion when he went on his travels ; yet he even seemed to envy my possessing this old mansion , with the gardens and fields . This was all the property my father could bequeathe me , and a hundred pounds in money , as the estate belonging to Treharne Hall not being entailed , it had been disposed of at the commencement of George's irregularity and superfluous expense . My father on his deathbed , and my mother , during the last struggle of expiring nature , recommended me to their son's protection . They were consequently relieved in their minds respecting my fate , as they hoped such a solemn charge , made at a moment so awful , would be held sacred , fondly indulging the hope that he might repent his evil disposition , and reform . For a short time after the decease of my mother , whom I lamented and wept for till my health was endangered , George behaved tolerably well , but when I began to recover , he again introduced Muggins , for a reconciliation had taken place , as he could not relinquish further designs on his wealth . Finding I persevered in rejecting his renewed addresses , which the knowledge of my poverty and dependence encouraged him to repeat , my brother was so enraged , that he commanded me , in the most savage tone , to quit the house in a few days . I endeavoured to support the cruelty of this inhuman relation with courage , as such treatment was undeserved ; but all my efforts could not suppress the tears of bitter sorrow that involuntarily flowed . At this critical moment , your father , who had unexpectedly arrived from Scotland , was announced : he had heard of my loss , and was impatient to see me , being warmly interested in what related to my future destiny . He was much agitated at seeing me thus mournfully engaged ; though I quickly dried my tears , yet the recent traces of them were too visible . Humane as he was brave , he soothed me with unequalled tenderness , and , stranger for some time to the voice of sympathy and kindness , I frankly confided to him every thing that had passed since our last meeting . The instant he was in possession of my real situation , with the most unexampled honour and generosity he made me an offer of himself . He avowed that he had long loved me , but having lessened his fortune by imprudently lending different sums of money , it had prevented him from making proposals before ; but now that I required a real friend and an asylum , he waved all objections , and if I would deign to accept so poor a man , he should feel the most enviable of human beings , and by his attention and ardent affection would exert himself to soften my sorrows , and heal my wounded mind . Charmed with the nobleness of his character , his goodness and liberality , I could not articulate for some minutes , during which period his countenance betrayed strong emotion : but when I assured him that I accepted him with gratitude , and that an union with him would secure my happiness , he looked animated and pleased . He would have spoken to George directly , as he had too much proper spirit to fear him ; but I would not subject him to his insolence , and packing up my clothes , left my brother's residence in a hackney-coach , and repaired to the house of the lady who had been my governess , and was much attached to me . There I remained till I had the felicity of being united to your father , and our marriage took place about a week after I left my brother's protection . His rage , I was informed , was quite ungovernable , when he found I was gone without yielding to his wish to unite me to Muggins , for he weakly imagined to terrify me into compliance . With your father I have experienced the most perfect happiness , and he never caused me any uneasiness but the fear of losing him . Of my brother , lord Treharne , I have not had any intelligence , except that he exists , for seven or eight years . Before that time I understood that , conformable to his principles , he married , soon after I quit him , a very rich citizen's daughter he despised , for the advantage of her wealth . Of course , they live wretchedly together , as his vile temper made her life , as well as his own , miserable . And now , my dear children , you are acquainted with the cause of my frequent dejection . Can I be otherwise than melancholy , when the recollection of those excellent parents , and their unmerited sufferings , calls forth the tear of deep regret ? My only consolation is the remembrance of their distinguished and amiable virtues . May this narrative excite you to emulate their excellence , and the example of your uncle be a warning to you , never to neglect the advice of those older and wiser than yourselves ; as , by contemning their admonitions , George became , painful is it to relate , the destroyer of his father and mother — not , indeed , by unlawful murder , which would have been mercy , but by a lingering death of sorrow , inflicted by the conduct of a child they tenderly loved . I hope it will instruct Jane to correct the violence of her passions , which I have often shuddered to find so strongly resembling her uncle's disposition . He was unhappy himself , and disturbed the peace of all who had the misfortune to be connected with him . Jane did not receive this gentle reproof with good-humour , but sullenness . She arose to quit the room , saying , with a pouting face — I am not more ill-tempered than others ; but it is easy to see who are the favourites , and whatever they do is thought right . Felix and Rose looked at her with concern , and Mrs. Douglas with a sigh ordered her to remain , and thus addressed her perverse daughter — I am truly shocked , Jane , at your indulging so envious a propensity , and suspecting me of having favourites , when you are all equally dear . Behave as well as your brother and sister , and you will find yourself as much admired and valued as they are ; for you cannot expect , if you are rude and ill-natured , to be esteemed and loved in the same degree as those who are polite and good . It is for your own comfort that I wish you to be of a pleasing , pliant character . Should you continue to neglect the disinterested counsel of an affectionate mother , and feel unhappy with misery of your own creating , when probably I no longer exist , you will bitterly lament having slighted my instruction . Do tell my mother , exclaimed Felix , that you will endeavour to make her happy by attending to her precepts , and correcting your faults . When you have just learnt what she has so undeservedly suffered , you ought to exert yourself to ameliorate , instead of adding to her sorrows . My mother is quite sufficient to admonish me , sir ; I do not wish for a monitor in you — you are too young for that office ; and she laughed impertinently at him , and then ran out of the room . I am sorry to find you incorrigible , replied Felix , as she left them ; and Rose and himself endeavoured to divert their mother's mind from dwelling on the untractable violent disposition of their sister . Felix was sincerely affected with the recital of his mother's unfortunate destiny before her union with general Douglas ; and tears suffused the eyes of Rose , when Mrs. Douglas described the melancholy death of lord and lady Treharne . At night , when she retired to rest , she could not , as usual , fall asleep directly , from the different reflections that obtruded involuntarily . Jane , who slept in the same apartment , in a separate bed , was in a sound slumber , when Miss Douglas was disturbed from thinking of what had passed , by distinct whispering at the chamber-door . The stairs were close to it , and after a few minutes , she heard footsteps softly descending the staircase , which surprised and attracted her attention . The house-clock at that moment struck two , and she was startled at hearing any one up so late , as the whole family usually retired to rest before midnight , unless they had visitors . The low sound of voices , and of passing footsteps , ceased , and in a quarter of an hour all was still and silent . Rose felt an uneasy sensation , and unable to compose herself to rest , she got out of bed , and looked from the window , as the moon shone bright and clear . It disclosed to her a sight which she judged was uncommon , in that retired spot . — About ten or twelve horses were waiting on the opposite side of the river , with four men seated near them , on the bank . In a few minutes they were joined by eight others , and mounting in great haste , they all rode off towards the sea-coast . Of this appearance she was perplexed what to think . Sometime she fancied the horsemen were robbers , or smugglers , and had some relation with the voices and footsteps she had heard on the staircase . Whatever might be the event , she felt alarmed and agitated , and observing the precaution of bolting the door , which had hitherto been neglected , she once more sought her restless pillow , and , notwithstanding all her apprehensions , repose soon visited her , from having watched so long . In the morning she acquainted Felix with what had passed , and did not tell Jane till she had consulted him , as she was very fond of tattling , and would mention it , she was fearful , to every one . Felix commended her prudence , and advised her to conceal what she had heard and seen , only confiding in him . It was reported , he said , that Treharne Hall was haunted by the spirits of their maternal grandfather and grandmother , who could not rest in their graves on account of their wicked son . Felix added , that neither his father or mother , he was convinced , would like to hear of the Hall being haunted , as it would revive the memory of scenes they wished to forget . It might possibly have been Kamira and Dolly , who had remained up longer than usual , to do some particular work , and had conversed in a whisper as they went to their room , which was an upper one , exactly above where Rose and Jane slept . Should they mention to the general or Mrs. Douglas her conjecture of their being thieves or smugglers , it would alarm , and , he thought , inconvenience them unnecessarily . The part of the building where he and his sisters slept was at a great distance from the wing his parents occupied , which had no habitable bedchamber except their own , and it would be troublesome and expensive to refurnish them . Felix intreated her , if she should hear the sounds repeated , to awaken him , as he slept in the adjoining room , and dismiss all uneasiness from her mind , as he was of opinion there was no real cause for anxiety . Dame Brownson came in the afternoon , in consequence of an invitation she had received to pass the day at Treharne . Mrs. Douglas was much affected at seeing the good old woman , whose tears flowed at beholding her . Ah , my dear lady , said she , in a tremulous voice , this is an unhoped-for happiness , to feast my eyes once more on the child of my beloved master and mistress . I was told you were gone away , far beyond the seas , many thousands of miles off , and never expected to meet you again . It glads my heart to see you returned with such a fine family . Mrs. Douglas made a kind reply , and did all in her power to make the dame pass a pleasant comfortable day , as comfort is the highest enjoyment for any person advanced in age . In the afternoon , when dame Brownson was in the housekeeper's-room , with Dolly and Kamira , Rose and Jane went to chat with her , Felix being gone out with the general . It was a stormy evening , and though the Hall was three miles from the sea , you could hear its distant roaring . I am glad you do not live close to the seaside , cried the dame , as they say there is a gentleman and lady seen and heard there , at Westpool ( which is the nearest part of the sea-coast ) , when the waves are rough , and we are going to have a storm . Lord William , the gentleman , was in love with a young orphan lady , whom he followed about whereever she went , and would not let her rest , trying all he could to gain her love , and promising her marriage . But this he never intended , thinking it was an honour enough for him to notice her as a mistress , as he was a great lord , and she a poor young lady , without a farthing . At length , with a great deal of persuasion , she ran away with him ; and after a few weeks , he picked a quarrel with her , and left her without a penny to help herself with . The loss of him she truly loved afflicted her more than being in want , and in a fit of crazy madness she flung herself into the sea , from a rock at Westpool . But the vengeance of God , who punishes those that ill use the innocent , soon overtook him . He was thrown from his horse , a few days after her untimely end , and dragged by the stirrup to so great a distance , that his body was horribly mangled , and his face smashed all to pieces , that not a feature could be known ; and his ghost has been often seen with that shocking face . Don't you remember the ballad about it , Dolly ? Only a line or two , I believe , aunt . I think , if you try , my dear , you'll call it to mind , perhaps a whole verse — but sing what you can , to please the young ladies . Lord William flung him at her feet , And bonny blinked his eye — No other maid shall be my bride , No other make me sigh . O , I will place within my breast Thy brown and silken hair ; No courtly dame , in cloth of gold , Is like my Ellen fair . Very well , Dolly ; so that's all you can remember ? well , it's enough to show how falsehearted some men are , whether gentle or simple , and untrue to young women , if ever so good and handsome , if they have no fortune , like poor Miss Ellen , in Dolly's song . Howsomdever , lord William suffered for it , in this world and the next . He was ordained , as a punishment , I have heard say , to bind the sand of the sea with ropes , and empty it with a cockle-shell , which he can never do ; therefore he is doomed eternally to be working hard at what he can never finish . In stormy weather he is often heard , calling out , in a hollow voice — Give me some more rope ! give me a bigger shell ! I never distinctly heard those words , but when the tempest has been very high , I have fancied I have heard something like it , when the storm loudly roared . Here dame Brownson ceased relating the history of the ill-fated Ellen . What a shocking storey , Mrs. Brownson ! Jane observed . I should not like to see lord William , with his ugly face , as hideous as his disposition was . You need not fear him , Miss Jane , when you know yourself to be good : an evil spirit is not allowed to hurt the innocent ; and I assure you , Miss , I am more afraid of the living than the dead . Now , aunt , for the other storey of the lady ! exclaimed Dolly . I hope she is not so wicked as lord William , said Rose ; I wish to hear of somebody that is good ; it makes me dull to hear only of worthless people . O , Miss Rose , there are seldom any storeys to divert about them , as they never injure any body , and generally rest in their graves , unless they come to do good . But , dearee me ! what is that lad about on the other side of the river ? They all looked , and were much interested at seeing a youth , apparently about sixteen , in a clean but faded green and black livery , washing a pair of stockings in the river . He then hung the stockings on a bush to dry , and taking the white neckcloth from his neck , washed it also . After washing it , he held it himself , to dry in the wind and sun , turning it first one way and then the other , as the wind blew , to dry it the faster . Wholly occupied in his cleanly employment , he anxiously pursued it without attending to any thing that passed , though many persons happened to walk that way at the time , and looked at him with curiosity and surprise . His face was pale , but his shirt as white as snow , which he had undoubtedly washed in a pond , stream , or river . Rose observed to dame Brownson , that she should like to ask the poor young man in , that he might dry his clothes at the kitchen fire , as his uncommon cleanliness interested her exceedingly . A word was sufficient for the warmhearted Kamira , who , on hearing this , beckoned to him , and going to the riverside , got into the boat , and soon ferried him over , with his wet stockings and neckcloth . The storey he told was simple and pathetic . His young master , with whom he lived , and was attached to , having died suddenly , he was returning on foot to see his friends in Cornwall , who were respectable farmers , when he was overtaken in a lonely road by a gang of robbers , who robbed him of all his money and clothes , except what he had on , and would even have stripped him of them , had not a sudden noise disturbed , and caused them to run off in haste . The general , on hearing this account , suffered him to remain all night at the Hall , gave him a change of linen , and money sufficient to convey him with comfort to his friends . On his arrival at his home , he wrote a grateful and respectful letter to general Douglas , desiring his and his friends ' duty and good wishes to himself , his lady , and children . The general and family felt much pleased with this instance of humble gratitude , as rare as it is valuable , and is an encouragement to a benevolent mind to continue its active goodness . Chapter IV . Here youth's free spirit , innocently gay , Enjoyed the most that innocence can give ; Those wholesome sweets that border virtue's way , Those cooling fruits , that we may taste and live . Shenstone . Time passed imperceptibly away , and four years had elapsed since the Douglas family were established at Treharne . Felix was the only one of the family who had quit it for a longer period than a week . The loss of his society was acutely felt by them all , but most severely by Rose , as he was her constant companion in walking and riding ; and being fond of reading , like herself , he would often read entertaining books to her , while she worked , or amused herself in drawing or painting . An ensign's commission had been presented to him by a friend of the general's , and it was nearly two years since they had seen him . He was , however , expected home in the course of six months having been , the greater part of that period of his absence , with his regiment in Ireland . Rose looked forward with delight to the prospect of her brother's return , be ing more ardently attached to him than Jane , who was too selfish a character to be capable of any warmth of regard , though a stranger would have supposed otherwise , from her vivacity and passionate temper . Rose and Felix were united with the truest fraternal affection , as their minds were similar , though Felix was more lively than his sister . He only wished to be fortunate in life , that he might be useful and of advantage to his family . To shield Rose from the frowns of fortune was his highest wish , as her timid gentle nature ill calculated her to encounter them ; and for the vain and confident Jane he felt less uneasiness . According to her brother's advice , Rose never divulged the noises and voices she had heard , though at intervals the same sounds continued to occur again ; yet as nothing disagreeable or of moment was the consequence , it ceased to make her uneasy . Sometime the voices were louder , and the noises more strange and alarming . Had she been inclined to superstition , she might have conjectured these sounds proceeded from a supernatural being , as she had exerted herself to ascertain if Kamira , Dolly , or Robin , occasioned at any time these extraordinary noises . Rose Douglas loved her sister with the tenderest affection , and it often cruelly wounded her that it was returned with indifference , and that she would not bend her inclinations to please any one , unless it was agreeable to her own desires . Of her mother's indulgent disposition she took advantage , and was never obedient to any one but her father , of whom she stood in great awe . Yet , when disposed to please , she could be most engaging ; but rarely took that trouble of making herself pleasing , except to strangers , who were generally charmed with her on their first acquaintance , though they frequently discovered her character when they became familiar — Jane did not think it worth while to conciliate her relations , and it was sufficient for them to ask any favour for her to be unwilling to comply . At the close of an autumnal evening , she was returning with her sister from a visit to dame Brownson , who had been very ill , when a storm that had been lowering burst forth tremendously . Torrents of rain poured down , the vivid lightning flashed , and the thunder rolled loud and heavily . They were near a cottage , which was neatly white-washed , and superior in appearance to those of the villagers . They had remarked , as they passed on their way to the dam's , that the cottage must have a new inhabitant , as it was so much improved since they visited Mrs. Brownson three months since . The storm increased most violently , and the rain and hail fell so fast , that it was no time for ceremony , and they hastened to the cottage , and loudly knocked at the door . A black girl opened it , and a short fat woman , genteelly dressed , came forward , and begged them , with great civility , to enter . Gladly they consented ; and when they walked into the passage , the rain dropped from their dresses , and streamed on the floor . The lady politely insisted on their changing their shoes and dress , and accommodated them with her habiliments while theirs were being dried . With great good-nature she likewise offered them a bed , should the tempest continue , as the general did not keep a carriage , and none nearer than Exeter was to be procured . The storm continued to rage with unabated violence till two hours after it was dark . At length its fury lessened — the warring elements were calmed , and it quite cleared up . They made many grateful acknowledgements to Mrs. Pryce , the widow lady , for her friendly attention and hospitality , and returned to Treharne , accompanied by Sophia , the black girl , to whom they made a present for her trouble . They found the general and Mrs. Douglas much alarmed at their not having returned home for so many hours . Robin and Dolly had been dispatched in search of them , and brought back the unpleasant intelligence that they had left the mill several hours ; but they quieted their apprehensions with the hope that they had taken shelter somewhere . With the kindness Mrs. Pryce had evinced to their children they were much pleased . They described her as having the remains of a very handsome face , with a diminutive fat person . Her conversation was suitable to a woman who had received a very superior education , and whose mind had been highly cultivated . Extremely lively and eccentric , she was of that character that was certain of pleasing two young people who knew nothing of the world , and had never seen any one like her . She laughed immoderately , and would repeat scraps of poetry in the most theatrical style , which was quite a novelty to them . The following day was remarkably fine , and Mrs. Douglas desired them to call upon Mrs. Pryce , with her compliments and a basket of excellent grapes , which Kamira was to carry , as their mother understood from Jane that Mrs. Pryce had four children , two of whom were very young , and she concluded the fruit would be very acceptable for them . When they entered the cottage-garden in front of Mrs. Pryce's residence , which opened with a wicket-gate , they heard a most discordant noise , that sounded as if some person was scolding furiously . They tapped at the door ; but the harsh sounds within prevented their being attended to , and gently lifting the latch , they walked in , and found Mrs. Pryce in the passage , with a stick in her hand , beating the black girl . The girl was crouched on her knees before her , crying , while she loaded her with the most opprobrious names ; yet no sooner did she perceive the young ladies and their attendant , than she ceased her clamour , and welcomed them with an affected smile of good-humour , while the poor girl silently made her retreat . Kamira had not been accustomed to such scenes at the general's , and could hardly restrain her indignation . She would , with her natural warmth of temper and frankness , have declared her anger at this barbarous sight , had not Rose looked expressively at her . This alone prevented her from mentioning her abhorrence of such inhuman behaviour , which was peculiarly revolting in a female who had any pretencions to the character of a gentlewoman , and whose education should have made her more refined . Mrs. Pryce insisted that the young ladies , if they had no engagement , should pass the day with her , to which Jane gladly assented , saying they had none , as most of their acquaintance in the country were absent — some in London , and at different places . Rose did not like to remain a whole day with her , as she was a stranger , and the specimen she had just witnessed of Mrs. Pryce's inhumanity had made an unfavourable impression : but when Rose found that Jane was determined to stay , she consented to be with her , as she did not like to leave her there by herself . She sent a message by Kamira to her mother , and cautioned the Indian not to repeat what she had seen of Mrs. Pryce's behaviour . Kamira was attached to all the family , but more particularly to Rose ; and as she never failed to obey her most trifling commands , she was pleased when the Indian promised to attend to her wishes . The conversation , after Kamira left them , was chiefly supported by Jane and Mrs. Pryce , while Rose amused herself in playing with the children , to whom she had begged to be introduced . Had they been kept clean , and well fed , they would have been handsome and healthy ; but they appeared to be ( what they really were ) neglected in their dress , cleanliness , and food . They were delighted at the novely of seeing two good - natured young strangers , as Mrs. Pryce had rarely any visitors , and were continually coming into the room , though forbidden by their mother , after they had played an hour with Miss Douglas . Mrs. Pryce placed a stick by her side to chastise them , and when they attempted to enter , the little fat woman waddled after them in a rage , and inflicted corporal chastisement . Accustomed daily to this correction , it did not prevent them from repeating their fault ; and Mrs. Pryce and her companions were constantly interrupted with scolding , crying , and squalling . Rose interfered several times in their behalf to no purpose , as she thought it hardened them ; and Jane , on the contrary , encouraged Mrs. Pryce to punish them ( as it was a diversion for her ) , and told her she was perfectly right to keep such troublesome children in proper order . Sophia received her share of the stick , if she did not fly the moment she was called ( as there was no bell at the cottage ) ; and Miss Douglas's head quite ached to hear Sophia ! Sophia ! bawled out every quarter of an hour , in addition to her screams , and the children's cries . About an hour before dinner , Mrs. Pryce left them to dress herself , as she styled it , which was very necessary , as she was exceedingly dirty , which they had not observed when they took shelter from the storm at her cottage , as it was nearly dark then . Her skin had the appearance of not having been washed for a long time ; and her hair , naturally a pretty colour , was disguised with dirt and grease . The oldest daughter was named Angelica ; and when her mother had retired to arrange herself , Rose and Jane were astonished and diverted to hear Mrs. Pryce exclaim , in a voice of thunder — Sophia ! Sophia ! bring me my rouge-pot . Sophia could not find it ; and after striking her two or three blows , Mrs. Pryce again thundered forth — Angelica ! Angelica ! where is my rouge - pot ? You ought to know , Angelica , where my rouge-pot is . The child answered — Indeed , dear mamma , I do not know where it is , but I will look , dear mamma . Go then ! — Fly ! Angelica and the rest of these children were all taught to say dear mamma , at every word , which sounded quite absurd , and was an affectation of affection . After the tumult had subsided , and she had gained the object of her wishes , Mrs. Pryce appeared with a clean face and hands , that had been long unwashed till now , and the lost rouge-pot in one hand . She began applying its contents before them , to her cheeks , chin , and even to her nose , which gave her a very ruddy appearance , and would have deceived any one , so natural did this bloom appear . How much it resembles nature ! exclaimed Rose , unthinkingly . You think so , do you ? — does it not ? I suppose you put on yours in the same manner ? But you have rather too much carmine on your cheeks . Rose blushed , and said she never wore any . Come , don't be so sly . How artful you are ! I won't believe such nonsense . Every body wears it , even men . Miss Douglas did not think it worth while to answer this ridiculous and unfounded assertion ; and Sophia came in that moment to announce that the dinner was ready to be served up . Mrs. Pryce withdrew to superintend it , and they heard her in the kitchen loudly vociferating , and abusing Sophia because there was not a clean tablecloth for dinner . Sophia excused herself by saying — You know , madam , we have but one tablecloth , and that is soiled . Begone then , wretch , and bring me a clean sheet — that will do . At hearing this , Rose and Jane could with difficulty restrain themselves from laughing when she returned . The sheet was brought in , and an excellent and expensive dinner placed on it , with a great deal of wine and ale . The poor children were allowed to be present , and eagerly looked at them when they were eating , but were not suffered to taste any of the good things , which made Rose quite unhappy ; and she petitioned for them to have at least some of the tart or pudding . But the hard-hearted greedy Mrs. Pryce refused , while she feasted and eagerly devoured the best on the table . When they had dined , the children were sent into the kitchen with Sophia , to a meal of potatoes and fat , mixed together , which their mother said was better for their health than any other nourishment . After dinner , Mrs. Pryce , who had drank a great deal of ale and wine , threw herself on the sofa , where she fell fast asleep , and snored loudly . The black girl went up stairs to arrange the bed-rooms ; and the children having no one to take care of or reprimand them , ran into the garden , and amused themselves with doing a great deal of mischief . Rose entertained herself with a book , and Jane in playing with a little pugdog , that knew a variety of tricks . When Mrs. Pryce awoke from her slumbers , she instantly began calling in a harsh voice for Sophia . — Sophia ! Sophia ! resounded through the cottage ; but no Sophia answered to her call . The sisters assisted Mrs. Pryce in searching all over her little habitation for the unfortunate black girl , and at length discovered her stretched fast asleep on one of the children's beds , overcome with fatigue and ill-usage . She was going to make the bed , when she sunk on it exhausted . O , the black lazy monster ! exclaimed Mrs. Pryce , giving her at the same time several severe boxes on the ear , which at length roused the poor creature . Don't beat me , mistress ! she cried out , in a piteous tone : you keep me up all night , which makes me sleep in the day . It is excusable then your sleeping now , observed Rose , hoping to soften Mrs. Pryce in her favour . You stupid sleepy-headed beast ! how dare you tell such a falsity ? I never sit up later than three in the morning , and get up again at six . Too much sleep is not good for any one . I should not like then to be your constant companion , rejoined Rose , for I do not wish to be up later than eleven , unless it is at a ball , or with very agreeable company . Hours were made for slaves , ejaculated Mrs. Pryce , in an elevated voice ; I am for the feast of reason and the flow of soul , which cannot be enjoyed except late at night . But where are my children , thou female Mungo ? Grin now , and show your white teeth . — Has she not got fine teeth , and fine eyes ? And as she pronounced these words , Mrs. Pryce smiled , and seemed in a moment to have recovered her good-humour , which made Rose think she was deranged , as such inconsistency appeared like it . The children being summoned by Sophia , appeared with their faces covered with dirt , and their frocks torn in many places : but their mother was now seized with a fit of such good-nature , that she did not attend to their tattered appearance , which would have produced , at any other time , a severe chastisement with the stick . Tea was now introduced ; and while they were partaking of it , the youngest child , about two years and a half old , who could hardly speak , ran into the parlour , screaming — Grueller , grueller ! What does he mean ? asked Jane . He wishes for the gruel Sophia is making for his and his brother and sisters ' supper , replied Mrs. Pryce . Sophia , bring the gruel . At this wellknown summons , the black girl enters with a large pot of thick gruel , but the most dirty ill-made mess they had ever seen . Poor little Tommy was so hungry that he cried and stamped for it as if it had been the most savoury food , and continued calling out Grueller ! till a bason full was given to him ; and he was then ready to cry for joy . They all seemed glad of their supper , as well as little Tommy , having had but a scanty meal of potatoes and fat . Rose was quite relieved when they began their walk to return home , and expressed her dislike of Mrs. Pryce's conduct and disposition to her sister , observing , that the only excuse she could make for her was , that she must be mad . If she was not , she really was afraid she was a very wicked woman , from her cruel treatment of Sophia , and severity and injustice to her children . — I do not think , continued Miss Douglas , that our parents will approve of any intimacy with a person who is so unfeeling as a mother and mistress , and conducts herself in a manner truly improper and vulgar . With all her faults , answered Jane , she amuses me extremely ; and I never will forgive you , if you describe what has passed to my father and mother , as it will be a great entertainment to me to go there now and then . She has seen so much of the world , it is an amusement to converse with her ; and we have no occasion to adopt Mrs. Pryce's errors , if we associate with her . You forget , Jane , that my mother has always told us , that we insensibly acquire the manners of low people if we are intimate with them . What a methodist you are , Rose , preaching so finely ! Mrs. Pryce says you seem very particular : I am sure you are not her favourite . Nor do I wish to be ; I should never feel flattered by the regard of a woman who is so careless of the health and morals of her own children . It is no concern of ours ; and I suppose she has a right to manage her boys and girls as she pleases : I am sure they deserve to be beat still more , such rude tiresome brats ! It is so dull when lord and lady Morrington are not at the Castle , that there is nothing to divert one ; and if you are the cause of our not visiting her , I will be revenged , and do something to disoblige you . It is not that I fear your revenge that I shall this time comply with your request , but because I am unwilling , though you are so unkind , to deprive you of any pleasure . Recollect , however , that it is on condition you are not too familiar with her , as I feel assured she is unamiable ; and if her grossness and inhumanity disclose itself more , I shall certainly not conceal my sentiments of her from my father and mother ; for I really think , if not inclined to insanity , she is very wicked . Jane's good-humour was restored at this promise , and she was very cheerful during the remainder of their walk , and did not say any thing satirical . Mrs. Douglas disapproved their remaining all day with Mrs. Pryce , unless she had previously known it , and desired them never again to act in this manner without her permision , as Mrs. Pryce was a stranger , and though she had made enquiries , she could not learn the least intelligence of her or any of her connexions . — We are not rich , continued Mrs. Douglas , and it is therefore of more consequence that we should be correct in our conduct , and in the choice of our acquaintance . The generality of people are not indulgent to the foibles of those who are not wealthy , though they will view in a favourable light the follies of the rich . You shall take every opportunity of evincing gratitude to Mrs. Pryce for her attention during the storm , but I will not allow any farther intimacy till I know who she is , and that your characters will not be injured by visiting her . At this moment the general entered . — I think you have been reading a lecture to the girls , said he , with a smile ; they both look very serious . Have you told them the good news , that their favourite , good-natured captain Burton , is coming down in a few days with a friend , to visit us for the shooting season ? We are very glad indeed , they both exclaimed ; for I shall never forget , said Rose , how kind he was on our passage from America , and did all in his power to entertain us . I wish lord Morrington's family were coming down too , added Jane , and then we should be quite gay . You have your wish , my love , replied Mrs. Douglas ; that is another agreeable piece of intelligence that I wished to surprise you with . Rose and Jane were delighted to hear this — the former because she was impatient to see Louise dae Rimont , with whom she corresponded ; and the latter on account of the gaiety that would take place . Rose was astonished that she had not in her last letter given any hopes of so early a visit to the Castle , and concluded it was her intention to make the pleasure greater , by its being unexpected . On the day that captain Burton and his friend were expected , Mr. Jerry and Miss Polly Wizzle dined at Treharne , with two gentlemen who had been six weeks on a visit at the doctor's , and were engaged a week before to dine at the general's . One of the gentlemen was named Eustace , and a lieutenant in the militia . He had been quartered three years since at Fairfield , and became acquainted with the Wizzles , who had given him a general invitation to their house , to stay as long as he pleased , whenever it suited his inclinations . This was in consequence of his gallantry to Miss Wizzle , with whom he had danced at the monthly Fairfield assembly , which was an excellent one , and attended in the winter by many fashionable and respectable people from Exeter and the surrounding country . The other visitor was an old physician , a doctor Owen , extremely eccentric , who had landed at Torbay , from France , where he had been confined as a prisoner ten years , and when he returned to England , had a letter of recommendation to the Wizzle family . He visited France on a party of pleasure , and having offended a malicious Frenchman , he secretly informed the government that doctor Owen was an English spy , and laid his plans so well , that the unlucky physician was made a prisoner , and many years detained before his innocence was known . He wrote poetry , though in a very inferior style , and got released by writing verses constantly to the minister of war , which attracted his attention from their being absurd , and ultimately procured his liberty . He had been to the East Indies in the early period of his life , and travelled over the greater part of Europe , beside residing many years in France ; therefore the general and his lady expected to receive a great deal of information and entertainment from him , as he was near seventy , and a man of education . But he woefully disappointed their expectations . He could speak neither French nor English well , his discourse being a mixture of both ; and his conversation , if ladies were present , interlarded with bombast and fine-sounding ridiculous compliments . When he was introduced to Mrs. Douglas and her daughters , he exclaimed — Here is a Juno ! bowing to Mrs. Douglas ; and a Venus and Hebe ! addressing the young ladies — Angels ! angels all ! Mr. Jerry Wizzle had acquainted Rose and Jane with this part of his character , or they would have been quite astonished at this singular address . Doctor Owen wore a French wig , exceedingly well made ; and so natural was its appearance , that they did not suppose it was a peruke , till , in bowing profoundly and awkwardly , it fell from his head , leaving it quite bore . He was very much confused ; and as he took it up and adjusted it , laid all the fault on the wig — They make the wigs so badly in France , he observed , in an angry voice , that one cannot keep them fast on one's head . I am very sorry indeed for this accident ; I beg you ten thousand pardons , ladies . It was with great difficulty they could compose their countenances at this speech ; and it had such an effect on the risible muscles of Mr. Eustace , that he could not restrain his laughter , and he excused himself to the doctor , pretending that it was at something else he laughed . Doctor Owen's dress was as ridiculous as his manners , and he wore a large red linen waistcoat , with flaps . When they had seen him before , he was dressed in a handsome suit of black , which made him appear , as he had been good-looking in his youth , most respectable ; but he was as whimsical in his dress as in every thing , and often varied it . Mr. Eustace was between thirty and forty years of age . He had been an attorney , but from extravagance and extreme dissipation , had incurred debts to a large amount . When nearly ruined , he accepted a lieutenant's commission in the militia , which was not a school to improve a vitiated mind . His figure was about the middle height , nothing remarkable ; but his face , at the period of his introduction to the general and Mrs. Douglas , was very handsome . It exactly resembled a portrait ( from which engravings have been made ) of the earl of Essex , queen Elizabeth's favourite . His eyes were beautifully expressive — a rich dark hazel ; his eyebrows finely pencilled , his nose perfectly formed , his forehead high and broad , like the earl's picture , but his chin too long . What was very singular , his disposition , in many points , as well as his features , resembled that unfortunate nobleman's ; he was very passionate and impetuous , grossly insolent if offended in the most trifling degree : but he had not the good qualities that likewise distinguished the earl of Essex . If his wishes were not instantly complied with by those of whom he did not stand in awe , he would cruelly insult and mortify the objects of his displeasure . In company with the general , Mrs. Douglas , or any person of the first respectability , that he dared not presume to affront with impunity , he was reserved and formal ; but with young people , and those he was very intimate with and under no restraint , and whom , if he offended , could not injure his interest , he was boisterous , rude , and even descended , when his spirits were high , to be insolently vulgar . Yet he did not disclose his character to people he respected till he had known them a long time . Since his visit to Fairfield , he had frequently attended Miss Douglas and her sister when they walked out , accompanied by Mr. Jerry Wizzle , who , notwithstanding his formality and eccentricities , was much esteemed by the general and all his family , as he was a good , friendly , learnt , and accomplished man . He drew and painted in a very pleasing style , and his little sitting-room ( in which he received his visitors separate from his parents and sisters ) was ornamented with his performances , and many pretty curiosities , beautiful shells , and fossils . With infinite art , Mr. Eustace studied , from his first introduction , to please Rose Douglas . Few men , if the least handsome , fail to fascinate , if they exert themselves , and have attractive manners ; and as he assumed a captivating address , and was animated and sensible , he had the satisfaction of perceiving she thought him very agreeable . Having secured , he imagined , a warm interest in her artless bosom , he ventured by degrees to unfold the disgusting side of his disposition : but his vanity was miserably deceived , though he had a great share of conceit , in supposing she was so infatuated as to be blindly indulgent to his faults . One instance she witnessed of his violence and unfeeling heart made her form the resolution to suppress any affections she was inclined to feel . This resolution was strengthened by a conversation she had with Mr. Jerry Wizzle . The worthy Jerry , perceiving that Mr. Eustace was prodigal of his attentions to Miss Douglas , thought it right to inform her , that he had lately discovered he was the most unprincipled of men , and was entangled already with a woman , by whom he had two children . To all females , unless they had a large fortune , his intentions were dishonourable , however much he might admire their persons . Jerry observed , that he was very sorry he had introduced him at Treharne ; but he trusted , as his stay at Fairfield would now be very short , the affair might be of little consequence . Jerry also added , that he confided in her understanding , of which he had a high opinion , to banish such a character from her mind , relying at the same time on her prudence not to mention what he had discovered of his disposition to the general ; he would undoubtedly be indignant and irritated at his presumption in daring to make love to his daughter without honourable designs , which the more astonished Jerry , as he understood all those he had hiterto addressed were of the most low and vulgar description . In the evening , Rose and her sister , attended by Mr. Eustace and Jerry Wizzle , walked in the garden , which was an enchanting spot , though the trees and shrubs wore an autumnal appearance . Doctor Owen and Miss Polly Wizzle remained in the drawing-room , with the other part of the company , and the doctor appeared quite enraptured with their mother . Miss Douglas conversed chiefly with Jerry , to avoid as much as possible any familiar discourse with Eustace , who generally contrived to lead her at a distance from the rest of the party . This he observed , and was enraged at the discovery , which made him display his natural insolence . The subject of love being introduced purposely by Mr. Jerry Wizzle , Mr. Eustace exclaimed , with great acrimony , that he would never marry any woman without a large fortune ; it was very well for boys and girls to act so foolishly , but no female could tempt him to commit that folly — Fortune was his idol . I am very glad you are not in love with me , said Rose laughing ; it would be a shocking thing , as I have no money , and am of a very different opinion . Whenever I marry , I should wish to marry for love . Nonsense ! nonsense ! replied Eustace , quite in a passion that she should talk so calmly on the subject , and dissent from him in her sentiments . Jane and Mr. Wizzle were as much diverted as Rose at his unreasonable warmth in being displeased at her not agreeing with him in what he had advanced , as every person has a right to judge for themselves . Conscious of his improper schemes , he vulgarly understood as meant for himself what was only a general topic of conversation , and , unable to command his passions , left them soon after , with a sullen aspect , concealing smothered rage , and returned to Fairfield , without wishing the general or any of the company good-night . Miss Polly Wizzle , who was quite enamoured of this gentle swain , joined them soon after in the garden , and eagerly enquired what was become of Eustace ? He is gone home quite dumpish , returned Jerry , or else in dismal dudgeon : perhaps he is ill . O , dear me ! I am quite concerned at the supposition . I flattered myself we should hear him sing this evening some of his merry songs , to please the young ladies , who are quite delighted I know with his singing , for he sings comic songs with success , and scientifically too . And well he may , sister , as he has had an opportunity of improving his voice , by being brought up as a chorister , and used to sing from a boy at some cathedral . That is not discredit to him , brother Jerry ; he is a gentleman's son — a lawyer , which is always a gentleman . I admire his singing amazingly , said Rose ; and if I may be allowed to give my opinion , I think , if he had not naturally a good voice , his learning to sing would not be attended with so much advantage as it has been , for I not only admire his comic songs , but those of a more serious cast . You are always so indulgent to every one , Miss Douglas , that I quite admire you , replied Jerry ; I wish Eustace resembled you , for he is too apt to speak ill of all his acquaintance , and to cherish foulmouthed slander . That is only his lively way , brother ; his spirits get the better of his reason . Has he any reason , sister ? I am sure he is very good-natured , and laughs and talks with all the servants as if they were his equals — not a grain of pride . Ha Ha rejoined Jerry : too much familiarity breeds contempt : and have you forgotten that he assumes this freedom with the domestics to get jobs done for him gratis , which he has acknowledged , and says that a laugh and a good - natured word is all that he pays people with ? You really are very amiable to return good for evil , when you must recollect he boasted of the present you sent him , with these words , Though little , accept it — Mariana . What think you of my sister's improvement on simple Mary ? It was because he was pleased with my gift that he mentioned it , brother : you put such ill-natured constructions on all that passes , just like a peevish old bachelor . Miss Polly seemed so angry , that Rose , to divert the subject , led them to a small hermitage she had constructed of willows , twisted , and covered with the bark of trees and moss , and thatched with straw . In this undertaking she was assisted a little by Jane , and a great deal by Kamira . It was situated in a retired part of the grounds , and surrounded with beech , oak , ash , and sycamore trees , that afforded a cool shade , even when the sun shone most fervidly . I am happy you find amusement in this employment , observed Jerry ; you who deserve to have that entertainment returned to you , which you so often bestow on others . But , with your delicate form , you must find your manual labours fatiguing , though it is delightful to sit under the shade of bowers erected by yourself , and smell the perfume of flowers reared by your own hands , as I suppose those last offerings of the year , now blooming , were planted by you . Every sense in this innocent recreation is gratified , even that of vain superiority , the most predominant passion in human kind . Begging Miss Douglas's pardon , I think gardening and rural amusements , brother , a very dirty occupation for a lady , and gives a coarse ruddiness to the skin , and spoils the hand , at the same time displaying a little sallow hand , which she fancied white because it was colourless . You see how white and soft my hand is ; it would not be so if I worked in a garden — therefore don't be persuaded by Jerry to continue this occupation ; it makes your face red , and look like the full moon . Jerry was going to answer his sister , when his attention , as well as his companion's , was attracted by the sound of a postchaise , which was so unusual there , that they all ascended a mount , which afforded them an excellent view of approaching objects . The sisters guessed that it contained their expected visitors ; nor were they disappointed , as the postchaise stopped opposite the Hall , and two gentlemen alighted . Two single gentlemen are they , did you not say , Miss Douglas ? cried Miss Wizzle : a very great acquisition in the country . I hope they will remain long enough to visit our assembly , for single gentlemen are much wanted , and there is often a scarcity of partners , and it is so awkward to see two ladies stand up together — worse than sitting forlorn without a partner . Rose replied , she did not know exactly how long they would remain at Treharne , but did not doubt her father and mother would introduce them at the assembly , if they did not leave Devonshire before it opened . Miss Wizzle appeared quite pleased with this speech , and they all sauntered a quarter of an hour longer in the garden , till the bustle of their visitors ' reception and the usual compliments were over . They returned to the drawing-room , where , according to their expectations , captain Burton and captain William Courtenay were engaged with the general and Mrs. Douglas in conversation . Captain Burton flew to meet them , and expressed his joy at beholding his young friends after so long an absence ; adding , he was rejoiced to see them much improved in their appearance , and so considerably grown , that he should with difficulty have recognised them in any other place . The generous sailor now produced a number of little elegant presents for the young ladies , and for every individual of the family , even for Kamira , saying he had not forgotten the pretty Esquimaux . He was exactly the character described frequently as a sailor — kind-hearted , frank , unsuspicious , and generous ; indeed he possessed too much of the latter quality , and was often distressed from his extreme liberality . The noble , liberal feelings of his nature , which , from the beginning of his entrance into life , were always too strong , led him often into difficulties , and were acted on by the artful and designing . Captain Burton placed himself between the two sisters , and informed them he was just come from Liverpool with his friend Courtenay ; and Jane asked him if it was a pleasant town ? It is a large populous place , he replied , with some regular streets ; but what it is most famous for are the docks , that are allowed to be the finest of the kind in England , and I believe may vie with any in the world for completeness . The number of ships constantly there look like a grove of trees . Formerly the town sent out yearly some hundred Guinea men , uncommonly handsome ships , and fitted up in the neatest style imaginable . Most of them carried guns , and being fast-sailing vessels , often took prises . The merchants at Liverpool have a custom of knowing when their ships are coming , at least for those ships they are anxious about . Upon a high hill , by the seaside , every merchant has his own particular pole . When a ship appears in sight , the flag of the merchant to whom the ship belong , is hoist , and the merchant knows his flag , and that his ship is coming . Here captain Courtenay , whom Rose and Jane had scarcely noticed , from being warmly interested in looking at and listening to their favourite captain Burton , joined in the conversation , and said — You have neglected to mention the most material point in your account of Liverpool , which is , that the female inhabitants of the town are remarkably handsome : but I will allow for your forgetfulness , as the present beauties have made you forget the absent ones . The theatre is small and neat , though only one actor and actress were good ; the rest execrable . We went likewise to see a famous Irish giant — a man well worth seeing by the curious , who picked up a great deal of money , as seamen of all descriptions are fond of sights . Burton , who is six feet high , could just reach his shoulder with his hand ; therefore you may suppose what a pigmy such a little fellow as I must appear by the side of him . You did really , rejoined Burton — quite a Tom Thumb . But I must finish my description of Liverpool , as Miss Douglas and her sister have not seen it . The mount we likewise visited , as you have an uncommon fine view from it of all the adjacent country , which is rather flat . The quarry is exceedingly long and deep , and a great deal of stone is taken out of it , which is of a useful kind . To conclude , this town swarms with people , who do not care a curse for any one , and the common sailors are very insulting . Doctor Owen approached at this momoment — Do you remember what the song says , Miss Douglas — Where , little wanton , wouldst thou be , Half so happy as with me ? This might Miss Douglas say — who else ought to say as much ? You angel , whose abilities in all respects are superlative , and demand acquiescence to all you say , think , or do , on any subject or occasion . This is not for me to doubt , any more that I should own , beyond all dispute , that you are the most charming of your sex . Your sister is a goddess , and your mother and both of you the three Graces . Where shall we meet with your equal for beauty and every accomplishment ? You have been describing Liverpool , gentlemen , said Mr. Jerry Wizzle , to silence his nonsense . I have been there , and find your description very correct . After leaving Liverpool , I travelled for my amusement to several other places , and first proceeded to Chester . The country from Liverpool to Chester is fine , observed captain Courtenay ; and the girls at Chester are lovely creacreatures ; but the magistrates are very strict — it is difficult to ogle them . The ladies seem the principal object of attraction to you , captain , replied Jerry . But do you not think the town a pleasant one , though very antique ? I admire the wall that surrounds it , which is in excellent preservation , as the chief inhabitants lay a fine on goods exported to repair the walls , which are intersected with small round towers . At the bottom of the walls is a canal , cut through the rock , and the ramparts are a famous mall for the people to walk on Sunday ; and you can see the raceground , which is a very good one , from the walls of the town . Another curiosity worthy observation here are the galleries that continue from each house to the next , so that in wet weather you can walk under cover from one habitation to another . How convenient and agreeable that must be ! said Jane Douglas ; do tell us more of your journey , Mr. Wizzle . Where did you go next ? To Namptwich , Miss Jane , which is a small dirty town , with nothing remarkable in it , except the earl of Huntingdon's monument , that , I understood , was erected by his wife ; and from thence we repaired to Newcastle , where myself and my party arrived at a very bad inn , and could hardly get any thing to eat , the people were so remarkably uncivil . About a mile from the town is the manufactory of the famous Wedgewood ware . We saw all the process , which is wonderful . Did you visit Uttoxeter afterwards ? enquired Courtenay ; for there is an excellent inn at that pleasant little town , and a very pretty chambermaid , who engages the heart of every one . A set of jolly farmers dined at the inn the last time I visited it , and insisted on coming up to us , which was highly diverting . Always a female in the case whereever you go , captain Courtenay . I liked the town very much , though I was not so fortunate as you in seeing the pretty chambermaid . We then proceeded to Ashby dae la Zouch , a good-sized town ; and then went forward to Leicester , a large irregular-built place , where you would not have been pleased , captain , as the females are plain , and most of the people methodists . Cardinal Wolsey was buried in Leicester Abbey , which is not striking , after having seen the cathedral at Exeter . There our travels ended , and we returned home , quite pleased with our excursion . The young ladies thanked Mr. Wizzle for this concise account of his tour from Liverpool to Leicester , and a desultory conversation took place , till a cold collation was ready , prepared at an early hour to refresh the travellers . Dr. Owen , Mr. Jerry , and his sister , stayed to partake of it , and soon after Rose attended Miss Wizzle to her dressing-room , to put on her bonnet , and borrow Miss Douglas's wrapping-cloak , as the night was cold , and Miss Wizzle too thinly clad for her age . Here she warmly expressed her approbation of the two naval officers . Captain Burton she thought a most goodnatured animated young man , who seemed to carry his heart in his hand . His friend Courtenay she likewise thought very agreeable , and more refined in his manners , only rather too affected and coxcombical . — I understand , continued Miss Polly , he is a post-captain , and Burton only a commander , as he is much younger , and appears only five or six-and-twenty , while Courtenay , I think , is on the wrong side of thirty ; but his lively gay manners , and his being a little fellow , make him appear younger . My brother tells me he has heard a great deal about him ; that he is quite a man of fashion , and related to a noble Irish family , which causes him to mix with some of the best society in London . You see , Miss Douglas , what an advantage men have over women : my brother goes about , and sees a great deal of the world , while I am buried alive in a dull country village . I am quite a stranger , Rose replied , to captain Courtenay , and ignorant of his family or acquaintance , merely knowing him as captain Burton's friend , who , I doubt not , would never introduce any one to my father who did not merit respect . Miss Wizzle now took leave , attended by doctor Owen and her brother , and they all separated for the night an hour afterwards , as the travellers were tyred , having had a fatiguing journey . Chapter V She walks in beauty , like the night Of cloudless climes and starry skies , And all that's best of dark and bright Meet in her aspect and her eyes : And on that cheek , and over that brow , So soft , so calm , yet eloquent , The smiles that win , the tints that glow , But tell of days in goodness spent , A mind at peace with all below , A heart whose love is innocent . Byron . On the Tuesday following , lord Morrington and his lady arrived at the Castle . Captain Courtenay was acquainted with them , and a particular favourite of her ladyship's . His lordship had made him promise , that whenever he came into Devonshire , he would visit them ; and it was his intention , after captain Burton left Treharne , to pass some weeks at Morrington Castle . Captain Courtenay , from being a very little man , did not attract the eye at the first blush . The impression he in general caused was , that he was quite a foppish character , which did not appear consistent with the idea usually entertained of those of his profession , who are expected to be frank , unfashionable , and unpolished , but generous , goodnatured , and unaffected , and as rough and difficult to govern as the faithless and inconstant element they plough . But severely did Courtenay revenge himself on those females who , unacquainted with his fascinating powers , neglected and contemned him . His dark hair waved in luxuriant natural ringlets round a countenance apparently beaming with animation and good-humour . Courtenay's large blue eyes , adorned with thick long black eyelashes , were the most expressive that could be seen , and delineated the most winning tenderness , or portrayed laughing vivacity , and depicted other emotions less pleasing most forcibly . His understanding was excellent , but the violence of his passions often eclipsed his good sense ; and his unbounded love for the fair sex , which was carried to a dangerous extreme , frequently plunged him in disgrace . Innumerable ( when in London ) were the affairs of gallantry in which he was engaged , and many innocent victims had fallen the prey of his irregular desires ; he was the destroyer of their peace , their purity , their reputation , and , eventually , sometime of their life . Yet he continued the same pursuits without remorse ; for what is so cold , so unfeeling as a libertine's heart , who views without feeling , and even with indifference , the ruin he has made ? Warm is the ice of Greenland , the snow of Lapland , to the mind of a licentious wordly man . Yet he had not quite escaped the punishment his vices merited , for his fortune was impoverished , and the only chance he had now left of retrieving it was by marrying some woman of extensive property , which was , at this period , the sole object of his wishes . Yet his eye still dwelled on the form of beauty with rapture , and glanced , with a wish to destroy , on the artless lovely face . He little heeded if the woman he was to marry could secure his attachment , as money would procure him , at any time , a beautiful mistress . He would have given the preference to a pretty wife , but in the search for riches , paid his court alike to the young , the handsome , the ugly , and the old , Plutus being the only god he worshipped . Captivating as he was , he had frequently been refused , by many women to whom he aspired , either from the parents being prejudiced against him , from the report of his universal gallantry and broken fortune ; or from want of inclination in the ladies , who were not sufficiently intimate to be captivated by his address . However , he had too flattering an opinion of himself to be discouraged , and determined to persevere till success had crowned his designs . Burton had assisted him with a great deal of money , as he was a stranger to the dark side of his character , and thought him the best and most honest fellow that ever existed . Courtenay therefore judged it an excellent plan to accompany him into Devonshire , where his character as an Irish fortunehunter was not known , and being a new scene of action , he might obtain the hand of some rich , and perhaps lovely girl . But if she was wealthy , that was sufficient , as he proposed to likewise amuse himself in making dishonourable love to the cottagers , and pretty daughters of the farmers . In addition to Courtenay's other attractions , his voice was melodious , and he sung with taste and judgement . It was to be regretted that he , who could make himself so pleasing and agreeable , was an enemy to virtue . How different from Burton , who , without the refinement of his friend , had every excellence that could dignify the human heart ! The most disinterested generosity influenced his conduct , which would have done honour to a prince . A friend having asked him to be godfather to his infant child , the liberal Burton complied with his request , making his godson , at the time he stood sponsor for him , a present of a handsome sum of money , which would amount to a pretty fortune when the infant became of age ; and when he performed this generous action , he was himself not more than twenty . He had been fortunate in taking prises , which enabled him to indulge his noble liberality . But his manners were boisterous as the waves he traversed , and from being accustomed to swear on board ship , he could not conquer this habit . Burton had brought the general several dozen of remarkable fine champaigne , which was a rarity then , and very dear . Neither Jane or Rose had ever tasted it , and with their mother's permission , having poured out a glass for each , he observed they were not in haste to drink it , and wishing they should , to heighten its flavour and enhance its value , he called out — D ― n you , drink it off directly ! d ― n you , drink it off ! which they all laughed at and excused , as he was accustomed to this language with his sailors . They were all attached to him , and would fight till they expired , while he commanded the vessel . Lady Morrington had been a week at the Castle , and morning visits had been mutually exchanged between the inhabitants of Morrington and Treharne . Her ladyship was particularly delighted at seeing Courtenay , as a sort of flirtation had passed between them , that would not prevent her aiding his views in obtaining a damsel of fortune . Shortly after her arrival , captain Courtenay received an invitation for himself and his friend to accompany general Douglas and his family to a fancy-ball , which was to take place at the Castle in a few days . Everybody invited were to appear dressed in some character , in a domino , or fancy-dress , and to support the character they assumed , but without masks , which was quite a novelty in the country , and promised much amusement . Rose and Jane were elated at the prospect of such an entertainment , and the night before the ball , were so engaged in talking of their dress , and the expected pleasure , after they retired to their chamber , that it was one o'clock before they attempted to compose themselves to rest . An entertainment of this description was quite new , and caused them an agreeable agitation , as they were fearful they might not have courage to sustain the characters well that they had chosen . The notice was so short , that it required some dress easily procured and arranged ; Rose had therefore fixed on Kamira's Esquimaux habits , and Jane had settled to appear as a country-girl , with a basket of eggs to sell . At length they fell asleep , but had not slumbered more than an hour , when they waked in alarm at hearing a loud rumbling noise on the staircase , as if something heavy had been rolled down , which was succeeded by a piercing shriek . They both sat up in bed to listen , and Rose asked who was there ? No answer was returned , and at that moment their faithful Ponto howled piteously under the window . Footsteps ascending and descending were now heard , and busy whisperings ; and soon after , the heavy tread of persons in the room above distinctly followed . Rose wished to open the door , and see what it was , but Jane said she should die with terror , if she did . It was a very dark night , and the rushlight , which they always burned when the moon did not enlighten the sky , gave a sudden flash , and was extinguished . At this critical instant , when melancholy darkness reigned , and their minds were impressed with horrible images , somebody pushed violently against the door , as if to burst it open , and turned the handle with force several times ; but it resisted their efforts , being bolted as well as locked . Jane , after the first alarm , was so frightened , that she had crept to her sister's bed , and they both remained together , trembling and saying their prayers , till the person at the door retreated from it , and heavily walked down the stairs . Soon after the other noises ceased , and all was quiet again ; but so uneasy did they feel , that they could not close their eyes till morning , through tranquillity reigned undisturbed throughout the mansion . Kamira , finding they were unusually late , came and knocked loudly at the door , telling them that breakfast was nearly over in the parlour . Rose opened the door , and Jane exclaimed — O , Kamira ! you would have overslept yourself , had you been frightened as we have been . We have heard the most dreadful voices and noises ! Somebody wanted to force themselves into our room , and poor Ponto , as if he knew we were in danger , howled dismally . Dolly and me have heard the same sounds , and worse , for we heard two men walking in our room , and shook the curtains of our bed . If I had got a light I would have fought them with my great knife ; but it was no use , as I could not see who to strike . Kamira got the brave heart of an Esquimaux still ; she fight for her dear ladies . But Robin heard big noise too , but say it no good me fight ghosts : but perhaps they no ghost , but robbers come to take general's money . I say so Robin , but Robin shake his head , and say it is , it is , because somebody not rest in their graves , because your mamma not have her right . I think , replied Rose , it is nothing wonderful , though we cannot explain or account for it . Probably our visitors walk in their sleep , or Dolly and Robin may , and not know it . Robin may easily fancy these extraordinary things , having been accustomed to hear all his life surprising storeys of ghosts , witches , and fairies , who are said to appear on every occasion in this country . But me believe what Robin say — a good old man ; he tell me , when the land and timber belonging to this great house sold , him daughter and him wife , then alive , heard people running up and down stairs while it was being cut down and selling , and that he sure it is no living people now running about the house at night . He afraid of some trouble to the family , as the wraiths , ghosts , and evil spirits , seem to be all in motion , and that your wicked uncle deals with the devil . Kamira would not be so rude to say this of your relation , did she not think you ought to know all what Robin tells me . This account made Rose and her sister smile . — It could not be ghosts who were thus agitated at the trees being cut down , observed the former ; it must be the hamadryades and dryades , distracted at their favourite trees being felled ; I cannot be otherwise than diverted at the idea . But really , Kamira , you must not believe all that Robin , though the best creature living , tells you ; his mind is weak , and his imagination easily worked up to believe in supernatural appearances . He has lived so much alone in this old mansion , since the death of his wife , as Dolly was often with her aunt , that he is apt to fancy whatever is horrible and superstitous : nor does it surprise me , for this place must have been gloomy and solitary indeed before we came to enliven it ; and when he heard any noise , he fancied there were people walking about the house . It is lucky , said Jane , that captain Burton and his friend , if they are not sleep-walkers , have apartments in the northern tower , or they would have been alarmed , and unpleasantly disturbed , with the sounds that molested us . O , they feel no fright , they not disturbed , replied Kamira , laughing , and showing her ivory teeth ; they brave men , they not fear ghosts , or thieves ; they fight for their country , no cowards . I rejoice to hear it , exclaimed Jane , for I should be sorry if they met with any thing disgusting , as they are so agreeable ; we should lose a great deal of pleasure in losing their society . Tell Robin , added Rose , to keep a loaded gun and one of my father's swords in his room . And I take my bow and arrows , my tomahawk , and great knife , to wound the robbers ; and as Kamira spoke these words , all the fire of former days brightened in her fine black eyes . Warn Robin , likewise , continued Miss Douglas , not to mention what has passed to my father and mother , as I do not like them to be made uneasy if I can avoid it ; and do you , Kamira , be cautious what you say . Never fear me . Esquimaux had a good education ; her mother taught her to know when to be silent , to bear pain without complaining , to be good to the stranger and traveller , and not to speak till others have finished what they have got to say . I know all your good qualities , and value them , and have often thought that the true politeness , real hospitality , and many virtues of the American Indian , ought to cause the European , with all his advantages , to bow before the untutored savage , as they are usually styled . A postchaise was hired to convey Mrs. Douglas and her daughters in the evening to the Castle , and the general and his visitors went on horseback , as they were to dress at lord Morrington's . Captain Courtenay was dressed as a Highlander , and Burton as a countryman , in a smock-frock , which made him an excellent companion for Jane as a country-girl . Mrs. Douglas looked very handsome as a lady abbess , and the general's figure appeared to great advantage in the costume of an Indian chief , with Rose , in Kamira's attire , as his lovely American daughter , who managed her bow with infinite grace , having been accustomed to see the Esquimaux wield it skilfully . Lord Morrington was a waggoner , and her ladyship an Italian lady , attired in a black gown , front and sleeves red , with beads in her hair ; Louise dae Rimont a court lady , in a white satin petticoat , with silver vine leaves , pink and silver train , with a large hoop , and feathers on her head . The hall was beautifully lighted with a number of pretty lamps , and the suite of rooms , through which the company alternately moved , brilliantly illuminated and decorated with taste and judgement , under the direction of Louise dae Rimont , whose mother frequently gave entertainments of this description in France , which calculated her to direct and superintend them , much to the satisfaction of lady Morrington and her guests . Involuntarily was every eye fixed on the beauteous form of Rose Douglas , and scarcely could wander from her elegant shape and perfect face , to gaze on any other object , though many pretty women were present . When you looked at her lovely countenance , its glow of beauty and animation made you forget the symmetry of her polished figure ; but when you gazed at it first , you admired its rare perfection , where every movement awakened some new and winning grace . Jane eclipsed every female except her sister , as by candlelight she looked inimitably fascinating , from its being a great favourer of bad complexions , for hers was exceedingly brown in the glaring light of day . A young French nobleman , the count dae Fontenai , was very assiduous in his attentions to Miss Jane Douglas , and danced with her the greater part of the evening . His countenance was very dark , but his features fine , his figure well-proportioned , about the middle height , and he danced so incomparably well , that she was congratulated on having such an excellent partner . The count's tutor came with him , and another nobleman , the marquis dae Monclair , who was likewise very attentive to Jane , and appeared to admire her even more than the count , though he did not dance so often with her . He was very tall — a stout , fine-looking man , but his face was inferior in attraction to Fontenai's . Captain Courtenay devoted himself the principal part of the evening to lady Morrington , and only danced two dances with a young lady of immense fortune , a particular friend of her ladyship's , whom he relied on to prejudice the heiress in his favour . When he perceived that Rose and her sister were engaged , he approached to solicit the honour of dancing with each of them , saying he was a thoughtless fellow , or he should have engaged them before , and hoped they would forgive his etourderie . No apologies , replied Jane ; we have plenty of partners ; and , to speak the truth , I would rather be engaged by a stranger , for there is little novely in being asked by those we see every day . Rose smiled , which indicated she was of her sister's opinion . You are more sincere than polite , Miss Jane , said Courtenay , quite piqued , for though he did not wish to be seen publicly paying attention to portionless girls , as it might defeat his designs on others of more importance , he yet wished to be admired by them , and to be regretted , particularly by Rose , who really pleased and interested him , though she was unconscious of the impression she had made . Rose danced with sir Henry Arundel , who was very pleasing and gentlemanly , about thirty . He was handsome and elegant , and she resigned him with regret , even to dance with her good-humoured Burton , and afterwards with captain O'Brien , an Irishman and a gambler , who was , as well as Courtenay , in pursuit of a woman with money . His person was insignificant , but his manners agreeable , with a prodigious stock of vanity . His life was exactly the reverse of what it ought to be . When in town , he generally passed whole nights at the gamingtable , and all day in bed , which made him colourless and thin . He usually rose at five in the afternoon , and went out directly to dinner , having breakfasted before he retired to rest . Captain O'Brien was much vexed at having asked Rose to dance , when he found , from lord Morrington , that her beauty was all her dower , as his lordship , who knew his character , on purpose to torment him had hinted that she was wealthy . He was , consequently , at first , in very high spirits at the prospect of obtaining a beautiful girl and money too ; but when lord Morrington whispered to him that it was quite the contrary , and that he was concerned he had made a mistake , his rage at being undeceived , and thus bereft of all his golden visions , was almost ungovernable , and he could with difficulty be commonly civil to his fair partner . Her beauty will not trap me , be assured , my lord , he muttered , in a low voice ; if I must swallow the matrimonial peel again , let it be well gilt . Rose , disgusted with his behaviour , had declined standing up any longer , and finding all the other ladies engaged , he lounged up to her , after he had expressed his disappointment to lord Morrington , determined to vent his spleen by abusing the company , as there was no one but herself to whom he could disburden his ill-natured mind at that moment , every one being employed in the sprightly dance , or in conversation . Rose was quite depressed at seeing him again approach , as she was rejoiced at having got rid of him . He sat down by her , and , finding she did not speak , suddenly exclaimed — Do look , Miss Douglas , at that little fellow : what distorted faces he is making ! he has St. Vitus's dance . I wish he would dance some of his money of his pocket . You must excuse me , replied Rose , with a serious air , but I do not like to hear the poor man ridiculed for being so unfortunate as to be afflicted with a complaint most distressing . It is painful to have illness and personal defects made a subject of laughter . But he deserves it ; he is as rich as a Jew , and as stingy as the devil . He is a good-for-nothing old man , and as ill - tempered as he is disagreeable , and so afraid of dying , that , for fear he should take cold , he puts on all his clothes smoking hot , even in the dogdays . He never reads the newspaper , or a book , till it has been aired before the fire . His boots and his hat are placed in front of a large fire , till they are so burning hot , that they are obliged to be held out of the window to cool . He is seldom the least good-humoured , but when his linen , and every thing he wears , actually scorch him . One morning when I called at his house I found him jumping about the room without a coat , apparently in an ecstasy of delight . I asked what had happened , and the servant , who was standing by him , replied , that his master had put on his pantaloons so hot that they had burned him . — I am sorry you have met with this accident , Mr. Shirley , I observed — Sorry ! he rejoined ; I am delighted , as I am certain now I shall not get cold . He does not mind being slightly burned , and always smiles with good-humour at his valet , though peevish and passionate when his linen , etc. is cool , and he thinks not aired enough . What would he do if he was married ? said captain Burton , who had advanced to them , and heard the latter part of O'Brien's observations on Mr. Shirley ; I suppose he would place his wife before the fire , and not speak to her till she was thoroughly warmed . His heart is not easily warmed — that is cold enough ; and I'll tell you a trick a friend of mine played him . He called on Shirley one very rainy day , and ran to embrace him , with his clothes quite wet , pretending he was enchanted to see him . Shirley pushed him off , screaming with agony , fearful it would give him cold to sit in the same room , much more to be so near , and affected an engagement of consequence to drive my friend away . After this adventure , he had a fit of ill-temper for several days . In addition to being very ill-natured , he is terribly afraid of thunder and lightning . Every time it thunders , he goes to bed , and has candles lighted , for his conscience is bad . He is much to be commiserated , said Rose : with this disposition he can never be happy ; no wealth can make such a man at ease . But let us turn from this disagreeable object to something more pleasing which presents itself . Look at that fine woman in the velvet gown embroidered with gold , and that handsome turban : it appears to me a Turkish dress , and very appropriate for that character . What a sweet expression in her countenance ! Was ever any hand and arm so finely formed ? as the sleeve falls back you discover it . How I should like to be introduced to her ! I am convinced I should be attached to her . It is the celebrated lady Harvey , replied O'Brien ; she has been a very improper character , but is now reformed , and received into some of the first circles — at least by such as are not rigid , like lord and lady Morrington . O , don't tell me any thing more against her , exclaimed Rose ; I will not listen to you . She looks all sweetness and goodness , and I cannot believe a word of scandal . I see lady Morrington with her , approaching my mother . They will be acquainted , and I am so delighted , as I shall then know her . When you are not so new to the world , madam , observed the indignant O'Brien , you will not be so eagerly fascinated with every engaging appearance , and find it fallacious . There is not one person in a hundred that can now please me , even if they are as artful as old Nick . You lose a great deal of pleasure then , by being indifferent to every one . Possibly I may , madam ; and as he pronounced these words , he walked away to another part of the room , to the great relief of Rose , who found him too satirical , though his delineation of some characters was amusing . Lord Morrington now introduced a new partner to her — the honourable Edward Montford . He was apparently in the meridian of life , and still handsome , though an air of languor was diffused over his person , as if he was in indifferent health . His conversation was lively , entertaining , and witty , his manners most polished and refined , and he danced gracefully , though with the same listlessness . Captain O'Brien returned to annoy Miss Douglas , when he perceived she was again disengaged . — You have had a delectable partner at last , he exclaimed , sneeringly ; one of the most wild and dissipated characters I know . He is every thing that is agreeable , and I am sorry to perceive that he is not in good health . Not in good health ! he exclaimed with a laugh : why , he has the finest health in the world , or he would not support getting drunk every night . He has tippled too much now , and that is the reason he is so languishing . You are really very severe , captain O'Brien ; you destroy all one's pleasure by showing the dark side of every body's character . I shall certainly begin to disbelieve you . If you think to mortify me by this account of Mr. Montford , you are mistaken . I should like him for a pleasing acquaintance or friend , but nothing more . Do not fean my being enamoured of him , for I heard a lady say , as we were standing at the end of the dance , that Mr. Montford had been twice married , and I should not wish to be attached to a man who had been married a second time . You are amazingly scrupulous : but his first wife he did not care a pin for , though he was madly in love with his second . Then I sympathise with him for losing the object of his attachment . There you are wrong again , for he was tyred of her . What a malevolent , unpleasing interpretation you give to the actions and conduct of others ! I conclude you are very capricious , and judge of the feelings of people you know by your own . True — you have guessed right . I admire your candour , replied Rose , and will imitate it , by saying that is the only point in your disposition I approve , as you are too censorious . Who is that ugly creature , said he , coming this way , marked with the small pox ? Rose made no answer , as she trembled for fear Louise dae Rimont should hear him , who was the person he alluded to , and advanced to her , with a girl , about seventeen . Fortunately his remarks were unheard , and Louise introduced her companion to Rose , who thought her the most lovely being she had ever beheld . She was attired in a pale pink silk jacket , and white silk petticoat , trimmed with ribbons of the same colour , and a wreath of ivy and pink flowers confined her luxuriant chesnut hair . Her face was round , with two cheeks resembling peaches ; her eyes dark , with the sweetest mouth ; her lips like coral , and finely formed ; and the light elegance of her figure gave one the idea of a sylph . She smiled with an air of good-humour at Rose , who was quite captivated with her , and Louise introduced her as a Miss Herbert . They proceeded together to look at Mr. Jerry Wizzle , who was dressed as a Jew , with a long beard , and exhibited a magic-lanthorn , which part of the company assembled round him to gaze at , and he sustained his character uncommonly well . Eustace ( who had not quit the country ) accompanied him as a watchman , with a droll little curly wig , and Miss Wizzle as a virgin of the sun — white gown , and large veil , with a gold band round her head . This group highly diverted them all , till Miss Herbert was summoned by her party to quit the Castle , as her residence was at a great distance from lord Morington's . Rose and Miss Herbert separated with regret , but with the hope of soon meeting again , as Treharne was half-way from where she resided to the Castle . Miss Herbert had scarcely left the room , when O'Brien was again at her side , purposely to indulge his splenetic moon , and therefore pursued Rose as her shadow . You are delighted , I see , Miss Douglas , with that girl just gone ; but I advise you not to be too easily fascinated ; she is only a natural daughter of Mr. Herbert's , who , though a man of fashion and fortune , ought not to introduce his spurious offspring . Ha ha ! I cannot help bursting my sides with laughter to see some of the prim ladies , who pretend to be models of correctness and of starched virtue , caressing baseborn children , if their fathers happen to be rich and of consequence . It is shameful that it is so much tolerated , and a shocking example to the commonalty . You will allow she is very beautiful ? replied Rose , who did not wish to notice his incorrect observations . Very well — by no means beautiful ; she wants animation — a mere automaton . There is no beauty without life — she seems to simply vegetate . You exhaust my patience , and satirise every one . I expect to have my share of your censure , and should be entertained to hear you , as you have not gallantry enough to be more indulgent to the ladies than the gentlemen . You may rely on not escaping , unless you conciliate my favour by being pleased with my society ; but you do not seem that way disposed . Lash me as cruelly as you can , for I will not disguise that I think you too much addicted to severe aspersion . Here their conversation was interrupted by the general , Mrs. Douglas , and Jane , who informed her the postchaise was ready to convey them home . They were attended to the carriage by the count dae Fontenai , the marquis , and several other beaux , and left this pleasant scene of festivity with an agreeable recollection of the pleasure they had enjoyed without any alloy . The general returned with them in the carriage ; they were much incommoded for want of room , but in high spirits , till they reached Treharne . General Douglas had , in the course of the evening , met with a favourite acquaintance , whom he had not seen for several years , and this made the hours pass imperceptibly and pleasantly . The day after the ball was very fine for the latter end of November , and tempted Rose and Jane to walk . Their conversation , as they proceeded , naturally turned on the occurrences of the last evening . You appeared , observed Rose , to admire the count dae Fontenai : his person is very pleasing , and his elegant style of dancing quite fascinating , but to his understanding and manners I am a stranger . Is he sensible and agreeable ? Quite the reverse ; I think he is half a fool , and very inferior to the marquis dae Monclair in captivation . Explain , then , why you had the appearance of being much pleased with him , and neglected the marquis , with whom you seldom danced ? Because , though I prefer the person , sense , and manners , of the marquis dae Monclair , I would sacrifice my inclination to the wealth of Fontenai , as I am told he is very rich , and an only son . You are very wrong , Jane ; for if Fontenai is as weak as you represent him , he may , by some foolish action , impair his fortune , while Monclair , with his good understanding , may improve instead of diminishing the little he possesses . Beside , you ought not to encourage both ; you may lose each admirer by such coquetry , which is certainly dishonourable . I do not care a straw for either , but I am in the right to amuse myself with their admiration ; and even if they should in time entertain a real passion , it will do them no injury . I recollect hearing Mrs. Pryce say , that men seldom die for love ; they are soon consoled . Just as she pronounced these words , the black girl appeared in sight , with Ms. Pryce's youngest daughter and little Tommy . They ran up directly to Jane , and the little girl said — How many days it is since you have been to see us ! Mamma often talks of you , and wishes you would come soon . Jane , who seldom blushed , now felt a deep crimson suffuse her cheeks , and in confused accents desired them to tell their mamma she would call very soon , and dismissed them . But the little girl called out , as they were going — Mamma told us to walk this way , as perhaps we might meet you , as we used to do , which heightened her confusion . Rose was so affected at discovering her sister had a concealment of this description , that she could not speak for some minutes . — O , Jane ! she at length exclaimed , how could you be so deceptious as to visit that unamiable lowminded woman frequently , unknown to your family ? Chance has led to the discovery , notwithstanding all your precaution , and it is very imprudent to associate with a woman whose character is suspicious , from the enquiries my mother made respecting her in the neighbourhood . Yet she has sent her several presents , to evince our gratitude for her kindness during the storm , and requested we will be polite and goodnatured when we meet her or the children , but to avoid any intimacy . I fear you will bring yourself into some affliction , if you persevere in visiting her . I am the best judge of my own conduct , replied Jane , elevating her voice ; for , conscious she had acted wrong , she endeavoured to drown the reflection in noise ; and if I am ever persuaded by Mrs. Pryce to act imprudently , I injure no one but myself . Rose was frightened at her speaking so loud , lest their conversation should be overheard ; but thought it her duty to admonish her to correct the violence of her temper . This conduct , she observed , that was overlooked in a child , was insupportable in a woman ; and she should remember they were descended from a distinguished family , that she hoped she would endeavour not to disgrace , as her thoughtless behaviour made her very uneasy . Fury flashed in Jane's eyes , and she was going to reply with acrimony , when a turning in the winding road they were sauntering through presented the wellknown forms of Courtenay and Burton at a little distance . Jane had the prudence to cheque her anger , and said , in a whisper , before the gentlemen drew near , that if her sister would conceal her visits to Mrs. Pryce from her mother , she would promise to only call and see her once more . I depend on your keeping your word , replied Rose , otherwise I shall incur my parents ' displeasure for concealing what has passed , and it will prevent me from ever again entangling myself in your concerns . How often have I taken a thorn out of your side , to put in my own ! But , if you deceive me again , I must renounce you for ever . Happily the near approach of the gentlemen terminated this unpleasant altercation ; and Burton , who had perceived that his friend admired Rose , with his usual sweetness of temper walked forward with Jane , leaving Courtenay to escort Miss Douglas . Captain Courtenay was disposed to make himself very agreeable , and when that was his intention , he seldom failed to succeed . Rose was more charmed with his conversation than she had ever been , and the time glided insensibly and delightfully away . There was an irresistible tenderness and softness in his address , and for the time , unconsciously , she experienced a predilection in his favour , and felt the full force of the winning expression of his fine blue eyes . As they slowly walked back , they heard the sound of a bugle-horn , and lord Morrington's pack of fox-hounds , which met that morning at Stokewood , appeared in sight . Eustace was with them , and called out that they had enjoyed excellent fun , one of the French noblemen having been obligated to suspend himself in a tree , when his hunter leapt over a five-barred gate , but he supposed he would soon extricate himself from his exalted situation . — We have had a most delightful run , added Eustace , of two hours , and I mean to be in at the death ; and saying this , he rode off . They had not walked much further , before sir Henry Arundel , Mr. Montford , thee count dae Fontenai , and the marquis dae Monclair , overtook them . They enquired if the storey Eustace had related was true , and Fontenai acknowledged it was , and that he had by that method escaped breaking his neck , never having hunted before . He now dismounted , and leading his horse , said he would attend them to Treharne , as he wished to call on the general and Mrs. Douglas . The marquis dae Monclair was determined likewise to give up the chase , which had , he observed , little attraction for him , and the ladies infinitely more ; and Dae Fontenai and himself resigned their horses to a servant , and walked with captain Burton and Jane . Sir Henry Arundel and Mr. Montford now wished them all good-morning , saying they should pay their respects to the general the following day . Captain Burton was disgusted with the foppishness and empty discourse of Dae Fontenai , for his chief topic of conversation related to dress . He informed Jane that he had invented many newfashions , and that he always cut out himself the pattern of his waistcoats and pantaloons ; and if any work was required to ornament the latter part of his dress , he drew the design himself . This may be very interesting to your tailor , exclaimed the marquis dae Monclair , but it cannot concern any one else — but I beg your pardon , it may probably also interest your valet , who has these wonderful habiliments secondhand . The marquis was perfectly free from the coxcombical weakness that made Dae Fontenai ridiculous , and it silenced the count on this subject for the present ; but he commenced another almost as absurd . His vanity made him conjecture that Jane Douglas admired him as much as he did her , and looking tenderly at her , he sighed and said — I have a very delicate constitution , mademoiselle Jeanne — I wish entrae nous you were not called Jeanne , for that is the name we call goats by in France . However , as I was going to observe , I do not think I shall live many years , as all my family for several generations have died young ; and when I marry , I should like my wife , after my decease , not only to wear black , but to have her apartments likewise hung with the same dismal colour , and even the curtains of her bed . What stupid nonsense ! exclaimed Burton ; the black draperies would soon be exchanged for a more gay appearance . You have heard , I suppose , the old storey of the Ephesian matron , and I am sure women are not less inconstant than formerly ? I have a better opinion of myself , monsieur loe capitaine , than to suppose I should not be lamented by my wife — I even think she would not survive my loss : a count dae Fontenai is not every day to be obtained . This sally diverted them all ; and the marquis , whose circumstances were very contracted , observing that captain Courtenay was considerably older than any of the gentlemen present , conjectured that he was some rich man , who was making his court to one of the young ladies , and his partiality to Jane made him apprehensive that she was the object of his admiration . He introduced the subject of marrying from interested motives , and thought it disgraceful for either man or woman to marry for fortune . For a man it certainly is , replied Burton ; but in a woman it is pardonable , as distressed finances or an uncomfortable home is often their just excuse . That is no extenuation of their error — love and content are superior to wealth and grandeur . The rich doe not know what love is — it is a blessing reserved only for the poor . A young lady and gentleman of my acquaintance , who were ardently attached , married with a very small income , and they were quite contented : affection supplied the absence of luxuries . Spoken like a romantic enthusiastic young Frenchman , said Burton : but I admire your sentiments , and it appears to me that you have more liberal ideas of love in France than in England . I am afraid we are in general too mercenary . You are a trading nation , replied Monclair , and that may be the cause ; but your very young men in this country have a little more ardour and liberality than those advanced or advancing in years . How superior is their attachment to an old man's ! A young man does not know the colour of your eyes , and is indulgent ; while , on the contrary , the other is peevish , obstinate , and illhumoured . They continued to discuss this point till they arrived at the side of the river fronting Treharne ; they crossed over , and found lady Harvey with their father and mother . The gentlemen soon after departed , and her ladyship then invited the general , Mrs. Douglas , and her daughters , to pass a few days at her villa . The general and his lady declined the invitation , but allowed their daughters to avail themselves of it . Lewin Court , the residence of lady Harvey , was charmingly situated on the banks of the river Exe , near the countryseat of Miss Herbert's father , which was an additional temptation for Rose to wish to go there . Miss Herbert , hearing soon after that they intended to visit Lewin Court , offered , with the utmost good-nature , to fetch them in her father's carriage , and on the day appointed conveyed them to her ladyship's house . Lady Harvey received them on their arrival with mingled sweetness , dignity , and elegance . Miss Nugent , the adopted daughter of a particular friend , was with her . She was a delicate fair girl , about twelve years old , with blue eyes , and an expressive engaging countenance . Half-an-hour after they had arrived , the sisters expressed a wish to retire , and dress for dinner ; but lady Harvey , in the most amiable manner , said — I beg you will not take that trouble , after your journey , as I understand you had a long walk before you commenced it . I live in general so retired , that we make no toilet here . Her ladyship's mother now entered , and was introduced to them as Mrs. Curtis . Her appearance was that of an old farmer's wife , but her behaviour easy and cheerful , as if accustomed to good society , though her language was simple . Mrs. Curtis appeared to dote on her daughter , who seemed to ardently return her affection . Rose admired lady Harvey's filial piety , which prevented her from being ashamed , in the superior and elevated station in which she had moved , to acknowledge her parent , and show her every tenderness . When lady Harvey attended her husband , sir Walter Harvey , abroad , her mother accompanied her , and her ladyship was received by the queen of a foreign court with the greatest distinction . Sir Walter was the slave of her consummate beauty , and he assiduously exerted himself to improve her then uninformed mind . Lady Harvey possessed , with the most perfect form and face , wonderful natural abilities , and , though young and uneducated , soon became elegant and accomplished . Nature had done a great deal for her , and the instruction of sir Walter , and the best and most refined society , finished what she had begun . Many anecdotes were related of her ignorance and simplicity , and among the rest , that sir Walter , who was a great collector of antiquities and rarities , having obtained a most rare and valuable vase , placed it in his drawing-room : here her ladyship was one day displaying some graceful attitudes , which were generally admired , when , approaching near the vase , sir Walter looked alarmed , which made her exclaim — Don't be afeard , sir Walter — I won't break your jug . But these kinds of storeys , if true , or raised by envy at her exaltation from a low condition , did not lessen her merit , but really served to make her genius appear the greater , that could break through the disadvantages of early neglect and indigence . Lady Harvey had taught Miss Nugent some of her graceful and fascinating attitudes , which she practised with a white muslin shawl , that she tastefully disposed , so as to form an elegant drapery round her slender figure , when she assumed the posture and expression of different characters . Miss Douglas and her sister likewise admired the incomparable style in which lady Harvey had instructed the interesting Miss Nugent to repeat poetry . Rose was more captivated than ever with the dazzling beauty , talents , and conversation of lady Harvey , and could with difficulty withdraw her eyes from her attractive person , whenever she spoke or sung , which she did inimitably . In conversation , her voice was sweetly harmonious , and Rose mentally exclaimed — I am not surprised at her elevation , for I am certain I should have been in love with her , if I had been a man . Her ladyship , who was well acquainted with the world , and had considerable penetration , easily perceived her innocent and unaffected admiration , and was pleased with this artless homage to her charms from one so new to life . She smiled at seeing Miss Douglas , in the course of the evening , look at one of her portraits , drawn when she was in the first bloom of youth , and exclaim — How exquisitely lovely it was ! Jane , who was not such an enthusiast as her sister , was engaged in conversing with two nieces of lady Harvey's , that her ladyship had likewise the goodness to maintain , and from whom she learnt many anecdotes that were afterwards communicated to her sister . Lord Nugent , the courageous and distinguished naval officer , who was the reputed father , by many , of his adopted child , Miss Nugent , had bravely expired , about three years previous to the present period . The warmth of his attachment and friendship for lady Harvey was almost unequalled , and his dying thoughts rested on her and his daughter , before the fatal moment of his irremediable loss . When he was in company , he was never animated but when her ladyship was speaking or singing , and then his single eye ( having lost the other in battle ) was enlightened with vivacity and delight . A regard so flattering and uncommon produced a grateful and affectionate return . The news of his death acutely wounded her feelings , and frenzied sorrow for some weeks nearly turned her brain ; but time , and the reflection that her grief was irreparable , had softened her anguish . Lewin Court was enchantingly situated on the banks of the river , with a garden in front , leading down on a slope to it . On the ground-floor was a pretty boudoir , two elegant drawing-rooms , and a dining-parlour . Several exquisitely - painted portraits of lady Harvey , when very young , and afterwards when her beauty was more matured , ornamented the drawing-rooms , and Rose thought she had never beheld any thing so eminently lovely , as her form was perfectly proportioned , and her face beautiful . In her person was combined what is rarely seen — the perfection of beauty , with expression and grace . Lord Nugent's bust was placed in the handsomest drawing - room , and his pictures in every apartment , in different attitudes ; each room , therefore , reminded one of the brave hero , who had nobly distinguished himself in many a severe contest . Near a wholelength portrait of him , in the best drawing-room , was a very interesting picture of Miss Nugent , when nearly three years younger , kneeling at the tomb of the brave Nugent , with her sweet blue eyes suffused with tears . The performance was pleasing and affecting , and her youthful sorrow so well portrayed , that the drops of anguish seemed to tremble in her eyes . In the same apartment hung the picture of the foreign queen who was so much attached to lady Harvey , and evinced the greatest friendship for her . Her face and form were exceedingly handsome , but her countenance was haughty and repulsive , and they could not tell if it was its natural expression or a misrepresentation of the artist . The apartment destined for Rose and Jane was an elegant room on the first floor . The bed-furniture was a beautiful coloured muslin , lined with a deep pink silk ; and when they arose in the morning , the scene from the windows was delightful . The river flowing gently along , its banks covered with verdure and trees , and a prospect of hills gradually rising behind , gave it altogether the most pleasing and cheerful view of nature in her loveliest garb . After passing three happy days , they returned home , and found their father and mother absent , having rode out , but Eustace waiting for them in the drawing-room . He had called early in the morning to take leave , as he was shortly to quit Fairfield ; and Mrs. Douglas , with her customary good-nature , invited him to remain and dine , as she thought he would be glad to see the young people before he went , judging , with a mother's partiality , that every person who had known them for any length of time must be prepossessed in their favour . Mr. Eustace had studied to make himself approved by Mrs. Douglas , and been successful , as she was unacquainted with his having had artful designs on her daughter , who had not thought it worth while to mention how often he had expressed an attachment to her , and told many a tale of love . She was apprehensive of his incurring her mother's anger , who would consequently inform the general of the circumstance , which would excite his indignation against Eustace ; and she could not endure the reflection , ill as he had behaved to her , of causing him any real vexation , though he richly merited punishment for his presumption . Have you seen any thing of captain Courtenay or Burton , Mr. Eustace , asked Jane since you came here ? For a moment , he replied , and they are now gone to Morrington Castle , where , I understand , they sleep tonight . Don't you think them very agreeable men ? continued Jane . Burton , I grant you , is ; but Courtenay is the greatest puppy I have yet met with — the most decided libertine ever known ; it is such an affected coxcomb ! I am acquainted with many officers in the navy , who speak with the utmost contempt of his vanity and affectation . At table one day , in carving a fowl , he said — Will you allow me to fatigue you with the bosom of this fowl ? Those who speak against him , observed Rose , only prove their envy of his superiority , and because he is a universal favourite with the ladies . It is publicly acknowledged that he displayed the truest bravery in a duel he fought abroad ; and likewise in a distinguished battle , where he evinced the noblest intrepidity , activity , and courage , which will be remembered as long as the History of England lasts . That he is rather foppish , I do not deny : but who , pray , is perfect ? One fault is pardonable , and it is better to be silent than censure superior merit . You speak , Miss Douglas , as if you were much interested in his favour . I am astonished you should , and cannot imagine how you can be partial to a man who has no personal attraction to boast . Such an old fellow too , coaxing his sable curls over his wrinkled forehead , with a head like a bull . Whatever faults may cloud his character , exclaimed Rose , he has one virtue that counterbalances all , which is charity to the failings of others : he is not inclined to the odious vice of defamation . I have never known him the least disposed to censure ; and , to prove his superiority to you , Mr. Eustace , when a gentleman was criticising your person , and saying your chin was like a shoeing-horn , and the handle of a pump , he observed that was too severe , and that , in his opinion , you were a handsome man . It is not captain Courtenay's appearance alone that is attractive ( though his eyes are beautiful ) , but the fascination of his manners , which makes him dangerous . Fascination of his manners ! said Eustace , in a contemptuous tone ; it's those curls , I suppose , which he papers undoubtedly every night . Whoever can be pleased with him must be easily fascinated . It is a downright infatuation . If you go in this style , replied Rose , I shall believe what the gentleman who was censorious , like yourself , declared — that people who had such a long chin as yours were always satirical and ill-tempered . Believe what you please , madam , but be assured you will repent this blind admiration . When Courtenay held a situation abroad , he seduced a number of innocent young girls , even mulattoes and black girls , and several in England , whom he afterwards deserted . I discovered him the other day making love to a beautiful country girl , not far from Treharne . I had met him three or four times before with her , and he said to me — Say nothing about it Eustace ; don't spoil sport . By Heavens ! I should not be surprised if he married her , notwithstanding his search after a rich wife , in the person of the great fortune , Miss Mason . She is a lovely creature this fair country girl — unadorned simple nature . It is an excuse for any mad action he may commit , and the Irish , I have been told , are fond of low connexions . Here Eustace felt his malice completely gratified , for Rose blushed , and then her complexion turned to a deathlike paleness , unconscious of her predilection for Courtenay , till she heard of his being attached to another . She did not recover her usual vivacity during the rest of the day , to the extreme satisfaction of the satirical Eustace , who seized every opportunity of mortifying her , as her depression gave him an additional advantage . He had , however , no justifiable reason to exult over and insult her . He would have been equally endeared to her if he had evinced the same winning tenderness and captivating address as Courtenay had demonstrated . Her disposition was too honourable to have willingly received any striking attentions , or given encouragement to the captain , had she been engaged to Eustace . In the afternoon they walked to the hermitage . The sun shone warmly for the season ; and the little building being well secured with thatch and moss , was protected from the intrusion of the cold air . They seated themselves there for a few minutes , and Jane asked Eustace to give them a farewell song . He declined , saying he was not in voice ; and suddenly turning to Rose exclaimed — I am quite surprised , Miss Douglas , that you are not more accomplished . Your sister plays on the lute , but you cannot perform on the piano , or any musical instrument . I am sorry you disapprove of my deficiency in modern accomplishments , said Rose , with a smile ; but I assure you I have not the least inclination to perform on any musical instrument , unless I could excel . An indifferent performer only wounds the ear , and cannot convey any pleasure to people of taste . To play well , observed Jane , joining in the conversation , is desirable ; but I think it is annoying to hear a lady execute a piece of music , or a song , like a learner , which frequently happens in society , and none of the company attend to the performance , unless to bestow undeserved praise , and please the wretched performer with flattery . Neither doe I think it a wonderful accomplishment to play on the piano , as you do , Mr. Eusstace , having heard my father and mother say , that in London the daughters of the meanest tradesmen learn music ; and you often hear the sound of some musical instrument as you pass a greengrocer's or butcher's shop . We were very young when we embarked with our parents for America , where we could not get a good master to improve us , and therefore soon forgotten the little musical instruction we had received in England . You must have been both very dull , rejoined Eustace , to forget the lessons you had from your master in this country . What you have advanced is a poor excuse for your want of genius . But , never mind — people get very well through the world without being clever . You need not be so ill-natured , Mr. Eustace , for my sister is allowed to be very accomplished , and possesses many elegant acquirements , which are much admired . Ha ha ! cried Eustace ; you will really make me burst with laughing if you continue puffing your sister in this ludicrous manner . Now go on , and give us an account of the accomplishments of the rest of the Douglas family . I did not find fault with you , because you play and sing exceedingly well on the lute , but with your sister's dullness and inferior taste , in neglecting to cultivate so pleasing a talent . Rose blushed , and mildly said — I wish you had not taken the trouble to defend me , Jane , as your vindication only excites more severe observations . Satirise him then in return , replied her sister ; I am sure he affords an ample subject for criticism ; I shall never spare him when he attacks me . But I rejoice the ill-natured creature is going , and can no longer vent his spleen on you . He is not like the good captain Burton and amiable Courtenay , who are always praising you , and admiring your abilities . Captain Burton has made Rose , Mr. Eustace , a most elegant present , for a drawing she painted for him . This intelligence , and Miss Jane's remarks , did not heighten his good-humour , and he continued in the same splenetic temper , and sullen to Miss Douglas , till the period of his departure . Of the general , Mrs. Douglas , and Jane , he took a polite and friendly farewell ; but showed Rose ( without any reason ) a cool and marked neglect , scarcely saying adieu ; and she justly felt his going away quite a relief , never having , by her conduct , merited such treatment , which was unmanly and unworthy . General Douglas was reading in his library the next morning , when he unexpectedly received a letter from Scotland . It informed him that his brother was dangerously ill , and wished to see him . In consequence of this information , he proposed setting out the following day , as he was anxious to comply with the wishes of his near relation , in that critical state of health . Mrs. Douglas insisted on accompanying a husband so beloved , whose naturally strong constitution was become fragile from repeated hardships and excessive fatigue . With health so precarious , she would not allow him to travel thus far alone , as he would feel the loss ( if taken ill ) of her unvarying attention and tenderness — that tenderness which springs from the heart , and is so superior to the assiduities of an hireling . This arrangement being concluded , captain Burton and his friend proposed , that on the same day that the general and Mrs. Douglas left Treharne , Courtenay and himself should repair to Morrington Castle , and take advantage of lord Morrington's repeated invitations for them to make his lordship a long visit . Mrs. Fane , who resided at Arlington , a village about a mile from Treharne , and was much attached to Mrs. Douglas , her intimate friend , promised to call and see her daughters every other day , and to have them frequently at her house ; which was very consolatory to their mother , who felt uneasy at quitting them , as they had never been separated from her , except for a few days , before . The general could not feel afflicted at the situation of his brother , as he had not experienced the least kindness or proof of attachment from him , though he knew his narrow circumstances , with a family to support , and was himself environed with riches he had not the spirit to enjoy . His miserly disposition had contracted the natural and social affections of the heart ; and he once refused to lend the general a trifling sum of money , when he requested it in great pecuniary distress . Yet this niggardly being , when he feared he was approaching his dissolution , seemed to feel keen remorse at length touch his flinty breast , though every affectionate sentiment previously appeared withered and obliterated . He was now anxiously desirous to behold his nearest relative before the vital spark was extinct . General Douglas lamented that Felix was not at home to remain with his sisters in their absence , as they had never been unprotected till the period which was arriving , when they would be left alone for the first time . But he confided with satisfaction in the prudence and steadiness of Rose , and cautioned her and her sister to decline every invitation they received in their absence , except one long-promised visit to doctor Wizzle's , and as many as they liked to Mrs. Fane's , though he relied on their good sense not to obtrude too often on that amiable lady's goodness , who would invite them perhaps more frequently than was convenient to her . The commands of their parents would be a sufficient excuse , he observed , for them to decline visiting at Morrington , or any other place , without giving offence . Rose was very melancholy when the moment of her father and mother's departure arrived . Captain Burton and his friend were already gone , but , with the general's permission , had promised to call and see them . This did not , however , console her for the loss of her worthy and respected parents ' society . She considered the distance they had to go , her father's delicate health , and that they could not return for a long time , even if her uncle had expired before they reached Scotland . Jane , who was seldom affected at any event , looked serious , while Kamira , when the carriage drove off , wept and bemoaned herself as if she was never to see them any more . It was an interesting scene to behold the fidelity and affection of the Esquimaux , who retained all her savage virtues , though her exterior was grown polished , and Rose valued her more than ever for her ardent attachment to the dear authors of her being . Dolly and Robin looked very grave , and dullness reigned that day throughout the mansion — scarcely a sound was heard . The general's journey passed without any remarkable occurrence , and , as they travelled expeditiously till they reached Scotland , Mrs. Douglas was pleased to observe that he supported the fatigue better than she could have expected . To Mrs. Douglas the scenery in North Britain was quite new , and she admired that part of her journey that conducted her to the banks of the picturesque river Dee , that has been so often celebrated in verse . The country combined wild and pleasing images : here fields of waving corn , intermixed with craggy hills and towering rocks , diversified the landscape ; a cheerful village peeped from among the trees , and willows and lofty pines graced the side of the water , as , calm and smooth , it clearly flowed along . They proceeded through a winding romantic vale , bounded with mountains clothed with wood , till they reached a sterile spot , from whence a natural cascade fell , and murmuring rushed among the overhanging rocks and cliffs , the water , where it was not mixed with foam , being as bright and transparent as crystal . They travelled progressively till they attained a hill that commanded a prospect of the Dee , flowing gently onward , and on the summit of this eminence was erected , many centuries since , the gothic castle of sir James Douglas , the general's harsh and parsimonious brother . The cheerful aspect of the river , reflecting the azure sky , enlivened the prospect , to which the dark green extensive woods would have given a gloomy air . A little island in the river , planted with shrubs and trees , gave a variety to the scene . Some of the neighbouring summits were shaded with broom and heath , enlivened with its gay purple and yellow blossoms ; and here and there a grey rock raised its venerable head . At the back part of the castle of Towie Craigs was a large park , extending to a great distance , filled with deer , whose branching horns and light elegant figures gave a pleasant feature to the varied view . They reached the Castle-gate ; the postillion rang the heavy bell ; it sounded loud and hoarse , and a ferocious mastiff barked furiously , as if unaccustomed to the arrival of visitors . The door was cautiously and slowly opened , after an old man from one of the casements had carefully surveyed them , as they were seated in the postchaise . The same aged man appeared at the inhospitable gate , with the mastiff , lean as a greyhound , by his side . He wagged his tail when the general entered the Castle , and then fawned on him , who now recognised in the half-starved animal , Rover , grown very old , but the plump favourite of former days . General Douglas enquired directly after sir James , and was informed he had recovered considerably for the last two days . He conjectured , therefore , that his brother was not in any immediate danger , as a change for the better was a favourable symptom ; and it was therefore his intention to amuse himself in shooting and traversing the scenes of his early days , though the alterations which had taken place since he was a youth inspired him with melancholy sensations . One old man and woman were all the attendants sir James kept — a striking contrast to his father's establishment , whose hall , at this time of the year , was thronged with servants in rich liveries ; and the piper , in the ancient Scottish dress , welcomed the stranger and traveller with the cheerful though rough sound of his b agpipe . At this season the Castle was f ormerly filled with company , and many g entlemen , who came to shoot , as the h ills abounded with game , partridges , b lackcocks , dotterels , and other birds . Mrs. Douglas was left alone , while t he general went to see his brother , and a gloomy deep dejection chilled her v eins , as she sat solitary and pensive in t he dull room where he quit her . The small panes of the casements that gave light to the apartment were rend ered more obscure by various cobwebs that were suffered unmolested to remain , and undisturbed dust covered the furn iture and walls , secure from the inv ading broom of any notable housewife . Chapter VI . O , proud and madd'ning is the pleasure , When to my eyes thy form appears , All dressed in nature's winning treasure , Of blushing hopes and graceful fears ; And while our bosoms wildly beating , A thousand nameless raptures prove , Our eyes in speechless transport meeting , Shall love to gaze , and gaze to love . Robinson . Three days had elapsed since the general and Mrs. Douglas departed for Scotland . During that interval their daughters had received a visit from Mrs. Fane , and captain Burton and Courtenay had called twice . The latter continued to improve in the good opinion of Rose , and her partiality made her doubt the truth of every thing that Eustace had averred to his prejudice . She judged it to proceed from a malignant disposition , which disapproved hearing the praise of another , and to a slanderous propensity . The more she associated with different characters , the more she discovered , with concern , the prevalence of slander , which is indeed too general . Even those who give parties , and received a great deal of company , Miss Douglas remarked would frequently backbite their visitors , which made her more earnestly endeavour to cheque the least approach to a vice so ungenerous . The most trifling tendency therefore to calumny was her aversion , and she felt pleased that a person who , like Eustace , was addicted to censure , had left the country . Yet she regretted his failing , from having been once prepossessed in his favour , and sincerely wished he might correct this evil propensity . The knowledge of his absence from doctor Wizzle's encouraged them to accept an invitation to drink tea at the doctor's , a visit they had long intended . Captain Burton and his friend were to accompany them , and they were much gratified at no longer having to encounter the sarcasms of the satirical Eustace . Courtenay and Burton were punctual to their engagement , and they commenced their walk to Fairfield . Part of this walk led by the river side , and the remainder through a wood of small extent , but picturesque and pleasing . The sun was gradually sinking in the west , and its faint rays lightly gilded the trees , almost bore and leafless . A few remaining leaves sometime rustled down , and strewed their path , announcing the approaching conclusion of the year . The woodland scene was occasionally varied by clumps of tall firs , verdant laurels , variegated hollies , and gloomy yew . Had this rural walk been less agreeable , still it would have charmed Rose , as , leaning on Courtenay's arm , she attentively listened to his fascinating conversation , which imparted a pleasing interest to each surrounding object . Burton and Jane walked with a quicker pace before them , talking away , gay and unconcerned , as no lurking passion created in their bosoms the least anxiety or perturbation . Notwithstanding all Rose had heard to the disadvantage of Courtenay , she would not suffer one suspicious thought to be disingenuously concealed in her mind , or to flutter about her heart to his discredit , and prevent her giving the fullest scope to her confidence . He mentioned that he found his residence at Morrington Castle pleasant enough , yet he did not feel so happy as at Treharne , where he had Rose to welcome him , when he had been absent , on pleasure or on a shooting excursion . It was so delightful , he observed , to be received on returning home by a being one values and esteems . The first evening of my absence , added Courtenay , I wished I could have transported you to Morrington , where your taste , accomplishments , and cheerful conversation , would have given a zestest to the insipid society I was with . I thought you were very partial to her ladyship , answered Rose . When she is disposed to make herself captivating , I like her very well , but that is not so frequent as I could wish ; and she has a fault which displeases me — it is a disposition to view with a jaundiced eye the perfections of her own sex , particularly if any attention or marked affection is shown and returned . For instance , when I have been praising you , she has either been silent , or expressed her disapprobation , to my great disappointment , as I should always like to see goodness like yours followed by esteem , as your good understanding and propriety will never permit the most attentive observer to question any part of your conduct . You are very indulgent , replied Rose — more so than I deserve ; but I do not expect to be regarded by every person with the same favourable eye . Satisfied with pleasing those whose good opinion I justly estimate , I shall never be uneasy because I am censured by indifferent people . This subject was interrupted by their arrival at doctor Wizzle's , who saluted them with his usual kindness . Doctor Owen , who now boarded with them , advanced and said — Really , ladies , it is so long since I have seen you , that I was afraid you were lost , dead , or what is worse , forgotten me and this amiable family ; but I assure you , the proverb out of sight out of mind had no place in my breast , when applied to such charming ladies . I have often longed to be in the company of certain persons ; I know who , and I know where — but mum ! They all smiled at this ludicrous address ; and Mrs. Wizzle requested Miss Douglas and her sister to divest themselves of their bonnets and pelisses in her daughter's apartment , who she supposed was now dressed . Rose and Jane therefore followed Mrs. Wizzle , and discovered Miss Polly at her toilet , grasping a tallow candle with both hands , and rubbing it on her hair , instead of a roll of pomatum , as she wore powder . They found it difficult to preserve a serious appearance at this sight , and seated themselves patiently ( at her desire ) till she was quite attired . At length she descended with them to the drawing-room , dressed in the most gaudy style , elated with the hope of attracting the admiration of the gentlemen . A deep rose-coloured silk hat ornamented her head , filled with artificial flowers ; and a clear muslin , over a slip of the same gay tint , enveloped her punchy form , shapeless as a barrel . A long pink sash completed her shewy costume , which made her look more ordinary than she had ever appeared before . After tea , cards occupied the time till supper , prepared at an early hour , which they were obliged reluctantly to partake . As they proceeded to the supper-room , Rose accidentally turned her head , and perceived , to her astonishment , Miss Wizzle , who remained behind the last , pinching her sallow cheeks to produce a colour . This the more surprised Miss Douglas , as she had frequently heard Miss Wizzle find fault with a natural bloom , saying it gave a vulgar look to a female to have a colour , and that it was more genteel for a lady to be pale . She was sorry Miss Polly thought it worth while to tell an untruth , and was diverted with her being anxious to obtain what nature had refused her . A large roast pig was placed at the head of the table , and two fowls at bottom . The fowls were purchased by Mr. Jerry , who having carved them , helped Miss Douglas and her sister to part : but no sooner had they tasted what was on their plates , than they found it impossible to be eaten , it was so exceedingly bitter ; and poor Mr. Jerry discovered the fowls had been rubbed all over with aloes . He could not conjecture who could have played him this ill-natured trick , not suspecting that it was a piece of revenge performed by his sister , Miss Polly , whom he had offended a few days previous to the visit . Well acquainted with his partiality and respect for Miss Douglas , whom he was anxious to please , and for that purpose purchased the fowls , she meditated this scheme of vengeance to mortify him . But she was defeated , in a great measure , in the consequence of her malicious design , as the kindness of their guests soothed his mortification , and obliterated speedily the remembrance . The table was liberally supplied , and they had no want of provisions to regret . After supper , singing was introduced , and Miss Wizzle said to her father , who had entertained them with one song — Sum up All , father — Sum up All. Their visitors were apprehensive , from this speech , that she intended her father should sing all the songs he knew , which they dreaded , as a severe tax on their politeness , the poor old doctor having , of course , at his age , a wretched voice ; but they were greatly relieved by discovering that Sum up All was the name of one song he frequently amused his visitors with . Doctor Owen observed , when they were taking leave , that he hoped to have a specimen of their good-nature when the general returned , in their consenting to spend some evening with him , as he had a drawing-room separate , to receive any ladies who would do him the honour to come and taste his tea and sugar , which was a curiosity , being twelve years old . He had left it in England when he went to France , and found it all untouched on his return . Miss Wizzle , however , whispered that it was not fit to drink . She was afraid to express her disapprobation of it aloud , as evidently she was exerting herself to ensnare the wealthy doctor into the matrimonial noose : but the old gentleman was too well aware of female cunning on these occasions , and too artful himself to be easily gained . It was the young and lovely of the fair sex that he admired , having been a man of great gallantry ; but even the power of beauty could not conquer his parsimonious nature , which made him averse even to the expense of a beautiful wife . Captain Burton and Courtenay escorted Miss Douglas and her sister back to Treharne , where they had left their horses . Captain Courtenay lingered behind with Rose , as he thought this was the most eligible opportunity he could have to explicitly declare his attachment to her . The night was fine , but obscure , and the dim light favourable for concealing their mutual emotion . You have passed a stupid evening , said Rose , but we cannot do otherwise than visit this family once every year , as the good doctor Wizzle and his amiable son Jerry show us the greatest attention , and perform many little offices for my father , which are of great service to him ; and they think themselves highly repaid , if we pass an evening at their house . Your being there , rejoined Courtenay , made the entertainment delightful , as the hours I pass in your sweet society are the happiest of my life . That innocent cheerfulness is a source of pure pleasure , and I can no longer disguise that I feel I truly love you , and sincerely wish to be possessed of such a wife . What a treasure will you bestow on me , if you confide yourself to my care ! Speak then , and decide my fate , and tell me if I am not disagreeable to you ? Rose hesitated . The declaration was so abrupt and unexpected that she was unprepared to answer , and remained silent and agitated . Again he urged her to own if she approved him ; and in faltering accents she confessed , after some moments of confusion , that she was pleased with his attentions . When he had attained this confession , Courtenay thus continued to address her — If you grant the boon I ask , yourself , my latest hour will bless you for the gift . My birth I owe to a noble family — my fortune chiefly to myself , and I have yet to improve it . You will marry a poor , but faithful and affectionate heart . Some of my days have been clouded with sorrow ; but latterly the sun has brightened , and I trust to see it setting with tranquillity , if I have a tender and constant partner to share my pleasures and pains . Confirm then my happiness , and say you will soon be mine ! I confide in the fidelity of your attachment , replied Rose , and consent to make you happy , provided that you acquire my parents ' approbation and blessing . You seem to doubt me , exclaimed Courtenay , by this caution . I trusted you had some faith in the integrity of my principles . By thinking I doubt you , you wrong me : but how can I give a decided answer till I know the sentiments of the best of fathers , and that my excellent mother is pleased with you ? To prove my esteem , I request you will write directly to Scotland , and I ardently hope , if you love me as truly as you profess , my father's answer will be a confirmation of your wishes . I only regret I have not known you longer . Is it not possible for a rational being , continued Courtenay , in an angry tone , to distinguish in a few days ( much more weeks ) the real worth and character ? Long solicitations of marriage are insufferable : it appears as if lovers distrusted their mutual fidelity . How easy do we distinguish the salubrious herb from the rank poison — the sweet fruit from the bitter ! — Why then should we not know our own fellowcreatures ? But enough of arguments — I will flatter myself with hope , since you confess I am not displeasing to you ; and your parents , who have seen the world , have too enlightened minds to nourish your prejudices , and are superior , I am convinced , to the narrow judgement of the multitude . As Courtenay ceased speaking , they reached Treharne . Jane and captain Burton had arrived half an hour before , as their interesting conversation had made them loiter behind . When Courtenay and his friend wished the sisters good-night , the former said , in a low voice — I hope soon to renew our last subject , that we discussed with so much interest this evening , and that your ideas will be more liberal on a candid view . They were no sooner alone than Rose prepared , as usual , to retire to their apartment , as she felt fatigued , and wished likewise to reflect on what had passed , which she could easily do when she retired to rest ( though not to court repose ) , as Jane generally fell asleep directly , and left her to quietly enjoy her reflections . But Rose was not allowed to ruminate on the events of the evening ; Jane said , when she attempted to go up stairs , that she was neither weary or sleepy , and intreated she would sit up an hour later . — I think it so much lost time , she observed , to sink mymyself in dead oblivion , losing half the moments of too short a life before nature requires it . To oblige you , replied Rose , I will remain an hour longer , though against my inclination : but let us dismiss the servants first , as they rise early , and require to retire earlier to repose than we do . Accordingly she touched the bell , and informed Kamira , who answered it , that Robin , Dolly , and herself , might go directly to bed , if they had fastened up the house . Kamira assured her that every place had been secured , except the hall-door , some hours , and that was now just bolted and barred . Rose dismissed her , and listened to Jane's account of a love-letter she had received from the count dae Fontenai , who was in despair at not having seen her for several days , as he was informed the young ladies were not to receive any company , except very particular friends , during the general's absence . The marquis dae Monclair had never written , she remarked ; therefore it proved , with all his professions , that he did not choose to commit them to writing , and had not so much affection for her as the count . Rose replied , that she was exactly of the same opinion , and that she admired a man who had love enough to risk his sentiments in writing . How infinitely superior to the mean suspicious being who dares not acknowledge with his pen the affection he has frequently avowed ! Having indulged Jane with chatting as long as was agreeable to her , Rose took the candle , and ascending the stairs , her sister followed . They had just reached the middle of the staircase , near a window that looked over the river , when a strong light flashed so bright and suddenly across their eyes , that Rose started , and in the astonishment and terror of the moment let the candle fall , and it was extinguished . The night was very dark and cold ; but a faint glimmer seemed still to shine near the window . When they were recovered from their surprise , they approached to discern what it was , and perceived a large body of light by that part of the river where the boat was moored . It appeared as if two or three persons were holding torches by the water side . It cannot be any one who wishes to see us waiting there , exclaimed Rose or they would sound the bugle , which is placed near the boat purposely to announce the arrival of visitors ; and I should not imagine any one would call so late at night , unless it were my brother returned unexpectedly , a happiness that would reward us for all our fears . However , I cannot hope that the lights are caused by that fortunate event , as he would certainly loudly acquaint us with his approach , by blowing the horn , and crossing over without ceremony . While they formed this , and many other conjectures , the lights began to move , and forming two distinct bodies , glided along by the side of the river , to a very great distance , as far as the eye could reach , and disappeared . With the vanishing of the lights , they lost all hope of seeing Felix , and now groped in the dark till they found their way to their bedchamber . Not a star beamed in the sky — all was deeply obscure and gloomy ; and they were saying how very dismal and uncomfortable it was to undress without a candle , when the room became suddenly illuminated . They ran to the window , and beheld the same lights moving rapidly , and fiercely blazing , like a bundle of wood on fire . Sometime they were elevated five feet from the ground , hovered near the river , and at length melted into air , emitting sparks of flame . How do you explain this appearance , which we have never seen before ? said Jane , with a tremulous voice . Do not alarm yourself , replied Rose , as I hear , by the sound of your voice , that you are frightened . I believe the lights are only Will with a Wisp , or , as it is sometime called , Jack with a Lantern . Two of these lights are not commonly seen , but I have heard my mother relate they have been discovered , but rarely , and more in foreign countries than in England . I cannot account for this luminous appearance in any other manner , as I have heard they shine more at a distance than near , and haunt marshy places . The bank of the river , where it emitted most fire , was on the side where it is damp and covered with reeds . I wish we had gone to bed directly we came home , and then we should not have been disturbed , and creeping about in the dark . Another time I will not indulge you with gossipping so late , when we are left with only the servants in the house . Nor will I ask you , added Jane , unless my father and mother are at home . We are so solitary and lonely in this old mansion without them , that I feel alarmed at every noise . It was so cheerful with Burton and Courtenay — O , how I wish they were here ! They spoke no more ; but Sleep with his leaden sceptre did not approach so soon as they expected . The appearance of the lights and thinking about it kept them awake for some time , till these reflections were lost in additional subjects of terror . The heavy trampling of horses on the road near the house first attracted their attention . This was succeeded by fast galloping ; and as the last sound of the horses ' hoofs resounded on the ear , they seemed to be pursued equally fast by another party , and several pistols were discharged . Any further attempt to sleep was impossible and useless . Through the murky darkness that veiled all around , they perceived the flash of fire-arms , and heard the clashing of swords , with hoarse and angry voices , mingling with the howling blast , for the wind blew loud and shrill . The obscurity that clouded every surrounding object prevented them from discerning any thing clearly , and Jane exclaimed , that she was apprehensive they were a gang of robbers going to attack the mansion . If they enter the house , continued the affrighted girl , what will become of us , with only old Robin for a protector ? I think we had better go and call him up . Rose assented , and endeavoured to calm her , while they threw on their wrapping gowns . Knowing that he slept in one of the attics , near his daughter and Kamira , they opened the door to proceed thither , when they observed a light gleam from the lower staircase . Concluding to a certainty that it was Robin , or one of the maids , who , alarmed like themselves , had got up , and was going to the kitchen , they followed the welcome light . It moved with such rapidity , that they could not overtake it , and therefore called Robin . But no answer being returned , they repeated the name of Kamira and Dolly . Still all was silent — no friendly voice re-echoed to theirs ; but they continued to pursue the light , which moved so quickly from them , though they walked fast , that they could not distinguish the person who carried it . At length it led them to the top of the stairs conducting to the damp extensive cellars underneath , where it totally vanished , leaving them in impenetrable darkness . The stillness of night was only interrupted at that gloomy moment by plaintive moans and lamentations , mingled with voices , that all seemed to issue from the hollow mouldy vaults beneath . Jane shrieked aloud , and fainted on the ground , while her sister endeavoured to save her from falling . Rose now felt really terrified ; she did not like to quit Jane , who was quite insensible , and cold as ice , and , as her only prospect of relief , loudly vociferated the name of Robin . End of Vol. I . Printed by J. Darling , Leadenhall-street , London .