The Esquimaux ; Or , Fidelity . A Tale . In Three Volumes . By Miss Emily Clark , Grand-Daughter of the late Colonel Frederick , and Author of Tales at the Fireside , Banks of the Douro , Poems Dedicated to Lady Lonsdale , etc. etc. A faithful heart its ample store Can more than eastern treasures pour ; ― ― ― its price is known To pure and noble souls alone ! It lends the lip a richer glow Than Persian rubies can bestow . V Vol. III . London : Printed at the Minerva Press for A. K. Newman and Co. Leadenhall-Street . 1819 . The Esquimaux . Chapter I Yet I still loved this burning pile , For here I gazed upon his smile ; 'Twas sweet along the torrent's side To watch his coming shadow glide . V Mrs. Douglas possessed considerable resolution and fortitude , yet during the interval before her son and daughters made their appearance , her mind was agitated so cruelly , that it was in a condition nearly approaching to distraction . In a shorter period , however , than she could have expected , though it appeared long to her maternal bosom , she had the delightful satisfaction of beholding them on the Hall steps . Accompanied by her excellent friend , Mr. Moncrief , they entered the boat , and were soon clasped in her arms . Words are inadequate to describe her sensations of happiness , from the severe shock and terror , on their account , that she had sustained . After Mr. Moncrief had landed them on the bank , he returned for the servants , and conveyed them safely from the house to the other side of the river . Felix , Rose , and Jane , had secured what they considered most valuable ; yet , had they escaped without saving any thing from the devouring flames , their mother would have been contented , since their lives were spared . Robin had conveyed likewise from the mansion a box of plate , which he placed for security in the postchaise . In the meantime the postillion returned , after having spread the report of the fire and summoned assistance . A numerous concourse of people were soon assembled , and by their activity , and the quantity of water near , with their persevering exertions , the fire began to burn less furiously . The firemen arrived shortly after from Exeter , and by their zeal and perseverance succeeded in extinguishing the flames , and half only of the building was destroyed . Before the conflagration was subdued , Mrs. Douglas proposed going to the house of her friend , Mrs. Fane , who was expected from London in a week , and requested Mr. Moncrief to accompany them . But this worthy man declined attending them , observing that he was determined to remain with her servants , to watch and guard their property from depredation . He promised , however , to be with her in the morning to breakfast . Most fortunately for Mrs. Douglas , she found all Mrs. Fane's household up , the alarm of the fire at Treharne having reached them , and roused the whole family . The butler was an old servant , and knowing how much his mistress was attached to Mrs. Douglas , was gone to her house to offer his services , but in the confusion he was unobserved by her . Beds were soon prepared , as they had all been , aired , and the apartments arranged , in expectation of their mistress's speedy return . Mrs. Douglas , quite exhausted with fatigue and anxiety , retired immediately to repose her wearied frame , and her example was imitated by her son and daughters . They slept soundly , being quite overcome with the agitation they had suffered , and did not awake till Mr. Moncrief made them a visit . When they met at breakfast , he imparted the pleasing intelligence of the fire being quite extinguished , as all danger of the flames bursting out again was now removed . The wing of the building which was generally uninhabited , was the only part of the structure totally destroyed . When Mr. Moncrief left Treharne , the servants were going to enjoy a little rest , after their excessive fatigue , in that part of the mansion that was yet habitable . Felix and his sisters admired the animation and zealous ardour displayed on this occasion by Mr. Moncrief , of whom Mrs. Douglas had spoken in the highest terms . To serve the wife and family of his friend , the general , he had endured extreme trouble and fatigue . Under an exterior , cold , forbidding , and formal , he veiled the most noble heart that ever graced the human breast . He was , as the Scotch nation are in general , when they form a friendship , the most warm and ardent of friends . Mrs. Douglas spoke with enthusiasm of the inhabitants of North Britain in general . Some of them were worthless characters , as must be expected , among so large a body of people ; but the generality , she affirmed , were hospitable , virtuous , friendly , and strict in their principles ; they were to be firmly depended on , in every transaction . She had often heard them despised and ridiculed for their economy , but it was frequently a proper frugality and prudence , that enabled them , by not impoverishing their fortune with profusion , to assist their friends in adversity . But Mr. Moncrief had not one narrow sentiment — his hand , his heart , his purse , were at the service of his friends . General Douglas and himself were boys together at the same school , and as they advanced in years , their friendship grew with them . Their regard continued till the general's duty as an officer called him to a foreign country . A short time afterwards , Mr. Moncrief went to the East Indies , where he acquired a princely fortune , which , united to the small estates left him by his father , formed altogether a very handsome income . He purchased a valuable domain , in the neighbourhood of sir James Douglas's seat , where the general and himself renewed on discovering they were neighbours , the friendship of their early days . It was a lucky circumstance for general Douglas , from the events that had lately happened in Scotland , which made the advice and society of a sincere friend a soothing consolation . Mrs. Douglas and her husband seemed destined to experience the utmost severity of affliction , as the incidents to be related will prove . Sir James appeared to be more attached to his brother than he had ever been to any thing before , and the longer he was with him , he was apparently most affectionate , much more than it was possible to imagine so avaricious and contracted a mind could be . But the truth was , that his tedious and severe illness had made him reflect seriously . He had no other near relation , who evinced the least interest for his welfare ; and on the continued bed of sickness he felt how helpless and dependant a creature man is . How superior he found the attentive kindness of a relative , who is capable of attachment , to the attendance of a hireling ! In consequence of these just reflections , he made a will in his brother general Douglas's favour , attested by proper witnesses , in which he bequeathed all his personal property , and every thing he possessed , to him and his family . A few days after , sir James expired in the arms of his brother , blessing him and his wife with his latest breath , for the gentle , amiable conduct of Mrs. Douglas had gained his esteem and regard . The general , now sir Felix Douglas , took possession of his brother's bequest , and intended , when his affairs were arranged , to send for his family to the Castle . It was his intention to make great improvements at Towie Craigs , the ancient residence of his ancestors for some hundreds of years back , and to reside there half the year . One day , when these thoughts occupied his mind , he was interrupted by the servant's announcing that a gentleman wished to speak with him immediately , on particular business . Always easy of access , sir Felix desired him to be introduced . A short thick man , dressed in black , with an awkward stooping gait , was now admitted . He bowed so profoundly , that his head nearly touched the ground . His countenance expressed the deepest cunning , and his small grey eyes were sunk beneath their heavy lids . — I am sorry , sir , said he , bowing low again , as he approached , to be obliged to communicate evil tidings , for I presume you are not aware that there is another person claims the estate of the late sir James , to which you consider yourself the lawful heir . Sir Felix looked astonished , and then replied — I should indeed be grieved to learn that my brother had acted with duplicity to me in his dying moments . If he has , the deception is unpardonable , and it would more sensibly afflict me , that he should have practised deceit at that awful hour , than all I may suffer from the loss of his fortune . I must , however , request to be acquainted with the name of the person who wishes to deprive me of the property sir James bequeathed to me and my children , and by what right he intends to dispossess me of the estates . He demands the fortune of the late sir James Douglas , rejoined Mr. Graham , the attorney , with repeated low bows , as his son and heir ; and his mother likewise claims her part , as his father's wife . At these words sir Felix felt struck as with a mortal blow . It was not for himself , but for his loved wife and children , that he shuddered at the deprivation of the fortune he had so long expected to receive ; his brother's bequest appeared to have rewarded him for his past sufferings , by allowing him to make his wife and children comfortable and happy . In the well-founded expectation of this property , he had also expended more money than he should otherwise have done , and liberally lent a brother-officer some hundreds , moved at his being in distress , with a young family to support . Having recovered his composure , after a pause of some minutes in which his expressive face denoted the inward emotion of his soul , he calmly enquired where this wife and child resided , whom he now heard mentioned for the first time ? Mr. Graham replied , again bowing very low , which mockery of respect quite disgusted sir Felix , from the messenger of such ill news , that his honour , the late sir James , was privately married , about nine years ago , to Helen Ramsay , by whom he had one son , named James , and that she lived in a cottage near the Castle , with her mother and child . Before his last illness , sir James often visited them , and gave Helen money at different times , which amply provided for their maintenance ; yet he continued from year to year to put off the public declaration of his marriage . When Helen's situation , in consequence of her union with sir James , was made known to him , he dismissed her from the Castle , where she resided as one of his servants . Helen repaired to her mother's cottage . There she was confined , and her infant was supposed by the neighbours to be the natural son of a Davie M'Gregor , a young man who worked as a labourer in sir James's grounds . To oblige his master , he pretended to be the father of the little boy , as sir James was then desirous that his marriage with a servant should be kept a secret till after his decease . Davie consequently decamped , to avoid the disgrace and punishment that attend affairs of this description in Scotland , and was accounted the parent of Helen's child , for which unmerited stigma he received a sum of money from his master . The general , as we shall again call him ( for he instantly dropped the title of baronet ) , enquired the name of the clergyman who had united his brother to Helen Ramsay , and his present residence . Mr. Graham then informed him that the last intelligence he had received of his being living was from Edinburgh , where he resided in Castle-street . He was named Murray , and had given Helen a certificate of her marriage , attested by him and other witnesses , who were , unluckily , likewise absent ; but this certificate Helen carefully preserved . The general observed , that the whole of this tale appeared to him very improbable and mysterious , adding , that he should not certainly resign his claim of right to the estates and property bequeathed him by his brother , till he had thoroughly investigated the entire transaction of this singular affair , which , he must confess , caused him a great share of uneasiness . Mr. Graham , with a hypocritical face , now took leave , saying , he hoped the general would not be offended with him , who had no further interest in the business than being merely employed by the widow as her solicitor . Immediately after his departure , general Douglas rode over to Lochnell , to his friend Moncrief . He related all that passed with the attorney , and consulted with him in what manner to act for the best . Mr. Moncrief instantly conceived this storey to be a complete fabrication , and deep plot , to obtain possession of sir James Douglas's property , or to extort money . Had the general offered the lawyer a considerable sum , he doubted not that he would have consented directly to hush up the business . Graham , he informed him , was quite a pettifogger , and boar the character of being often guilty of the most dishonourable actions , if his interest was concerned : but he trusted that they should be enabled to unmask the knave , and worthless woman his tool . General Douglas and Mr. Moncrief repaired together to the cottage that had been described by Mr. Graham , and were received by Helen Ramsay , a tall , rawboned , dark woman , with hard features . Her son was with her , very unlike his mother , having coarse red hair , a fair skin , exceedingly freckled , and dressed in ragged attire . Helen was closely questioned by the general and Mr. Moncrief , but she persisted without variation in the truth of her storey , and produced a dirty piece of paper , signed by Mr. Murray , as an evidence of the legality of her marriage . But I am astonished , said Mr. Moncrief , that if you were , as you profess to be , the wife of the late sir James , that you did not insist on being clothed and maintained more respectably . Helen answered , that all the country were all acquainted with his stinginess , which made him grudge the least expense . He had many a time mentioned , that the reason he did not take her home , and introduce her as his wife , was from the apprehension of expending more money . Frequently he lamented having committed himself by marrying her , as it was very expensive to assist her and pay for the support of his boy . Finding nothing satisfactory could be obtained from Helen , who was apparently artful , bold , and wicked , they left the cottage , both convinced that the late sir James had more taste than to have exposed himself from the attachment for this low , ugly , cunning woman . We must set out for Edinburgh , said Mr. Moncrief , and endeavour to have an interview with the clergyman , who , Helen affirms , married her to sir James , as it appears to me a tale of mystery . Your brother's chief fault was a miserly propensity , but his character never appeared to me to be the least deceptious . A good fortune should not , therefore , be tamely resigned , till a proper investigation has taken place . The general now observed to his friend , that as this unfortunate affair would probably keep him a long time separated from Mrs. Douglas , it was much his wish for her to return to his daughters , from whom they had both been so long absent . As his title to the Castle and estates was now disputed , he was particularly averse to her remaining there alone . It was his intention , he continued , if this cause proved fatal , to go to London with his family , as it would be necessary , if his fortune received so severe a blow , to remind his friends that he was in existence . Some of his intimate acquaintance , that he had not met with for many years , had it in their power to forward his son's promotion as an officer . General Douglas likewise mentioned , that in the event of losing his brother's fortune , he should endeavour to procure some situation under government for himself , as one of his intimate friends , who was generally resident in London , had great influence with the minister . The only objection he had to this plan was , that he felt an uneasiness at the idea of suffering Mrs. Douglas , from whom he had never been long separated since their marriage , to travel so far without a companion . Mr. Moncrief desired his friend not to let that be an obstacle to his wishes , as he would himself attend Mrs. Douglas , having business in England , which he intended to transact there in a few months , and by accompanying his lady , it was only dispatching it a little sooner . The general replied , that he had greatly relieved his mind by this friendly offer , which , from his representation , he should not scruple to accept , not suspecting it was only a kind invention of Mr. Moncrief's to serve him . A few days after this conversation , they all set off together for Edinburgh , where Mr. Moncrief and Mrs. Douglas left the general to search out the clergyman , Mr. Murray , and consult one of his most eminent advocates respecting the contested estates , and proceeded together to England . Before they quit Towie Craigs , Sand y and Maggie had been questioned by them . Their opinion was asked relative to the marriage , and both these old domestics said they were certain that the whole storey was an invention ; they suspected that the villainous attorney had persuaded Helen Ramsay and her mother to pretend she was married to sir James , and the child his , when it was undoubtedly the baseborn offspring of Davie M'Gregor and Helen . The old woman added , that Helen Ramsay had only been hired to assist when sir James had formerly a dangerous fit of illness , and she remembered often seeing her very familiar with Davie . — Let my master have what faults he might , said Maggie , I am sure he would not have demeaned himself with such a dirty slattern ; and if they could find poor Davie , he would tell the truth , for he was an upright lad then , drawn out of the right road by that Maypole wench . Maggie doubted not , if they found Davie , that he would clear all up , but they must be sure to promise him that he should not be brought to disgrace on account of the child , nor be forced to pay for maintaining it , as he was a needy lad , and of a downcast bashful temper . The little boy , Maggie said , favoured Davie much , whose head was as red as a carrot , and he was not in the least like her master's family . The general assured her they would handsomely reward Davie , if he discovered Helen Ramsay's and the attorney's wickedness and deception ; and they drove from the Castle , with the old woman's ardent wishes for their success , and that they might defeat Graham and Helen's schemes . When Mrs. Douglas had been two days at Mrs. Fane's , Mr. Moncrief proposed to her ( as it was the general's wish that they should soon go to London ) to take the opportunity of his being with them , to settle herself there in a house or lodgings . The fire at Treharne had deprived them for the present of a home , and he judged , from the conversation that had passed , that his friend would prefer their going to town from that circumstance . In the critical situation of their affairs , he would certainly be unwilling they should engage another residence in the country . His society and advice was the greatest advantage to the wife and children of his friend , as the former , from having been so long absent from the metropolis , was almost a stranger to it . She had only visited it occasionally before she was married , at the most fashionable season of the year , which was so long a period since , that it was nearly the same as never having resided there . The faithful and affectionate Kamira was to travel with them , but Robin and Dolly were to be left at Treharne till their mistress received the general's orders respecting them , and if the old mansion was to be repaired . Mrs. Douglas was likewise anxious to be in town before Mrs. Fane quit it , that she might apologise for having been at her habitation , and explain the necessity that obliged her to intrude without permission . Although Mrs. Douglas considered that friendship required no outward ceremony , yet she did not think it should supersede the necessity of good-breeding , as well as good-humour , and that politeness ought to be maintained with the most intimate friends . Such best , she thought , evinced an equal steady mind , and rendered friendship permanent . Rose had confided to her mother the principal events that had occurred since her departure for Scotland . She did not even conceal the perfidy and violent conduct of her once-esteemed Courtenay . Indescribable horror affected Mrs. Douglas at this description of her sufferings . Yet while she expressed her sorrow at Rose having been subjected to such insult and cruelty , she was grateful to Providence that had saved her persecuted child from the ruin that hovered over her . She rejoiced at the marriage of the man who would have been her destruction , as it rescued her daughter from additional importunity . What happiness did the reflection impart , that Courtenay was become an object of indifference to Rose ! — time and the remembrance of his ungenerous behaviour having healed the wound that his infidelity had caused to lacerate her affectionate bosom . With the character of the brave , the amiable sir Eglamour Delavalle , she was quite charmed . She relied on the delineation of his good qualities described by Felix , as it was impartial ; but she could not so well have depended on her daughter's account , which might be influenced by partiality . The altered appearance of Jane , and her dejection , made her very unhappy ; otherwise , the improvement in her temper and manners would have been productive of the purest satisfaction . A distrust of something wrong having happened in her absence pervaded her penetrating mind . From this presentiment , she was apprehensive of discovering some painful incident relating to her youngest daughter , and seldom spoke of her to her other children . In tenderness , the fondest mother could not surpass Mrs. Douglas , who redoubled her kindness to Jane , and paid unwearied attention to her health . This unaltered affection had a powerful effect on the mind of her daughter , as it removed all the terror that pressed heavily before , from the apprehension of her mother's being acquainted with her imprudence . Apparently she had no suspicion of any impropriety having taken place while she was at Towie Craigs , and this consoling idea was beneficial to the health of Jane . Mrs. Douglas was also bewildered in conjectures respect the fire at Treharne . At length she concluded it must have originated with the ruffians who were employed to carry off Rose and Kamira , as there was probably , as her daughter suspected , a communication from the cavern by the seashore to the one near the old mansion . Treachery , she felt assured , had caused the flames to burst out in the uninhabited turret , and to burn such a considerable part of the building , which she regretted , from its having been the abode of her ancestors time immemorial . She was convinced the fire must have been purposely kindled there , as no combustible matter , or even a light , had been placed in it for a week before . Notwithstanding her partiality to Treharne and its environs , she would not have wished to reside there again ( supposing no accident had injured the building ) , unless her husband was with her , and the mysterious and alarming noises her children had heard were explained . From the horrible scenes Rose had encountered , she could not endure the thoughts of living there , unless the entrance from the cavern was so secured as to shut out any intruder . Jane's maternal sensations at the prospect of quitting her child were painfully acute . However , she had the pleasing consolation of leaving it with the good and careful dame Brownson . Guilford , who had been to see it , promised , when he answered her letter informing him of her intended journey to town , that he would never desert his lovely child , in whom he felt great interest ; and as he was to remain in Devonshire , would acquaint her frequently with its health and welfare . Chapter II . By fortune's touch affection's ore we trace , Or find of friendship the metallic base ; As zinc from brass , when urged by heat departs , Truth sends the glitt'ring gloss from brazen hearts . Taught by this test , we learn how sordid clay May all the hues of precious gems display ; But soon misfortune's furnace flame condemns To dust or poisoned fume the mimic gems . Seem rich , if friends and joys like these allure ; If thou wouldst prove their emptiness , seem poor . Rose now wrote to sir Eglamour , who had not yet sailed , requesting him to discontinue addressing letters to her till she had written again , when their place of residence in London would be fixed . Jane had yielded to her persuasions to avoid a parting interview with the sweet infant , as her agitation in consequence might be perceived by their mother , and alarm her . To console her sister , and reconcile Jane to this separation from her child , Rose promised , that immediately after she became the wife of sir Eglamour , she would take it under her own protection . By this plan its mother could see it continually , and watch its improvement . But it makes me very melancholy , said Jane , to reflect that my darling girl will never lisp its mother's name ; only regard me as a stranger . Let us not be eager to anticipate afflictions , replied Rose : by often seeing you , and receiving your caresses , it will be as much attached as if it knew you were its parent . Remember , you might never seen it , if Guilford had been disposed to take it away . Rose said this to calm her grief , and went soon after to embrace the little Caroline , for the last time before they left the country . She fondly kissed its rosy lips , and embraced its cherub form . A tear of fond affection bedewed its velvet cheek while it slept ; and when it awoke , Caroline smiled , and expressed , in infantine sounds of delight , her joy at seeing her aunt , who often nursed and danced her about . Dame Brownson , who witnessed her emotion as she gazed on her innocent face , exclaimed — Do not make yourself uneasy , dear young lady , for you may depend on my being more careful of this darling beloved child , than if she was my granddaughter . The simple assertion of this good woman , that she would assiduously guard it with attentive and watchful affection , relieved the anxiety of Rose respecting its fate . She returned home , and gave a pleasing description to Jane of dame Brownson's attachment to Caroline . Afterwards they walked to Treharne , to take a parting look of the ancient mansion . Its ruined dilapidated appearance Rose viewed with regret . She was attached to this spot , which looked more romantic from its being apparently in a state of decay , washed by the silver waters of the river , and placed at the bottom of a beautiful valley . Here she had experienced the keenest sorrow ; but here also she had tasted the purest pleasure , and the sweet happiness of being beloved by the man of her heart , who was deserving the most exalted love . Rose , in compliance with her mother's request , informed Robin and Dolly that they should not be absent more than a year ; but should any unexpected circumstance protract their stay in London to a longer period , they might depend on the general's sending for them to come up , and reside in his family as usual . Young Dolly and old Robin were equally delighted with this promise . In his youth , this venerable domestic had occasionally visited the metropolis with the late lord Treharne , but his continuance there was generally only for a few weeks ; his lordship was always afraid that his simplicity might be imposed on by designing characters , and never allowed him to accompany him but when he expected to remain a very short time in town . Robin was nevertheless delighted at the idea of revisiting the scenes , though transitory , of his youthful days , which he recollected with satisfaction , when health glowed in every vein , and each object was new and pleasing . Dolly also , who had never seen any other city than Exeter , was eager to behold a place that she had been told had so many curiosities in it , where the gentlefolks were dressed in gold , silver , and jewels , with golden carriages , and all sorts of beautiful things and fine sights . They both promised to take great care of what remained of the old mansion , and to keep the garden in good order . Dolly said she would water Miss Douglas's flowers , and be very careful of her greenhouse plants and hermitage . Rose replied that she should bring her some present from London , to reward her diligence , and doubted not that when the general's affairs were settled , and he had leisure to think about it , that he would directly have the Hall repaired , and they should all return when it was again made comfortable . Mr. Moncrief having engaged four places in the mail that proceeded from Exeter to London , the whole party commenced their journey , for Felix and Kamira preferred travelling on the outside of the coach . The time passed very agreeably , as Mr. Moncrief was a sensible and entertaining companion . When they were within a few miles of their place of destination , he amused them with a description of Scotland and the Hebrides . Rose observed , that she should like to visit North-Britain and the Western Isles . Would your curiosity , my fair friend , replied Mr. Moncrief , extend your journey to St. Kilda , the most remote and unfrequented of all the Hebrides ? If you chose to write an account of your visit and observations on these isles , there is little doubt but it would be narrated with doctor Johnson's purity of language , but infinitely more favourable to its picturesque scenery and peaceable inhabitants . Perhaps you will think me not quite accurate in talking of rural scenery , where , as doctor Johnson says , a tree might be a show in Scotland , as a horse in Venice . This want of foliage , said Rose , would be reconcileable to me , if upon experience I should find what is reported of these islanders to be true — that they are a race of people uncorrupted in their manners , and therefore the least unhappy of any perhaps on the face of the whole earth . They live together , rejoined Mr. Moncrief , in the greatest simplicity of heart — in the most inviolable harmony and union of sentiments . They have neither silver or gold , but barter among themselves for the few necessaries they may reciprocally want . To strangers they are extremely hospitable , and no less charitable to their own poor , for whose relief each family in the island contributes its share monthly , and at every festival sends them beside a portion of mutton or beef . Both sexes have a genius for poetry , and compose not only songs , but pieces of a more elevated turn , in their own language , which is very emphatical . It was here Aurelius sought refuge from the cruelty and insolence of his enemies . But I am interrupted — but not , like Mr. Grattan ( when he closed his celebrated speech on the Catholic question ) , exhausted . Here is Hyde Park Corner , and you will certainly prefer looking about you at this busy scene to listening to my dull details . Your conversation is too interesting and entertaining , replied Rose , for dullness to approach ; and I only regret that you have ceased your account of the Hebrides , from a kind wish that I may receive greater amusement . This is a cheerful , pleasing entrance into London . As the mail-coach drove furiously up Piccadilly , Jane observed , that all the people in town seemed in good-humour , and were either smiling or laughing . They are not one particle the more goodnatured for this jocular appearance , exclaimed Mr. Moncrief . Idle and thoughtless in general , they endeavour to catch amusement from each passing object . Follow them into retirement , and you will find those who appear most merry devoured with spleen , morose , and sullen . The broad grin is not the countenance of happiness . From the mail , they were conveyed in a hackney-coach to lodgings in South Audley-street . Mr. Moncrief had written to an acquaintance to engage them for Mrs. Douglas , till she found it convenient to provide herself with another habitation . The master of the house was a respectable tradesman , lately married , who kept a shop in Bond street , and lived at this private residence , attending the shop during the day . Mrs. Linn , his wife , informed Mrs. Douglas that they had only one lodger beside their family . The gentleman was a German nobleman , about forty , who had resided at Brussels , until the French army entered that city , and deprived him of nearly the whole of his property . Mr. Moncrief had desired his acquaintance to select some situation near Hyde Park for the residence of his friends . He considered , that as they came from the pure air of the country , the change was very great , and it was necessary they should be near a fine open place for their morning walks . When Mr. Moncrief had comfortably settled them in their present abode , he took an affectionate leave , and departed to join his friend at Edinburgh . Previously he advised Mrs. Douglas , as she was in respectable good lodgings , not to be precipitate in quitting them , for any trifling cause , till she could provide herself with a house which would completely suit her in all respects , and that she would not be in haste to remove , as frequent removals were troublesome , dangerous , and expensive . Mrs. Douglas assured him she would be guided by his advice , from the high opinion she had of his judgement and understanding . The report of sir James Douglas's death , and that he had left the general heir to his possessions , was quickly diffused among all their connexions . Many persons who had but a slight acquaintance with the general and his lady left their cards , eager to visit them , now they were considered as wealthy . Those who imagined they had inherited a splendid fortune were astonished at not finding them in magnificent lodgings . They expressed their wonder , when they left them , to each other , at their living so retired , and not assuming the title , as Mrs. Douglas in that case was lady Douglas . However , they thought proper to conjecture , that as probably they had not yet received much money , the general and his lady wished to live in retirement till their affairs were quite arranged , and they could introduce their children into the fashionable world with great eclat . Mrs. Fane was agreeably surprised by unexpectedly meeting her friend , whom she tenderly loved , and entered into all her joys and sorrows . She was quite gratified that she had taken refuge at her country-house in the hour of perplexity and distress . To enjoy the society of Mrs. Douglas , after so long a separation , Mrs. Fane purposely remained some days longer in town than she had intended . This was a mutual satisfaction to the friends ; and Mrs. Fane intreated , that till Treharne was rendered habitable , the general and Mrs. Douglas would consider hers as their country-house : it would be very convenient , Mrs. Fane observed , to be near the spot , to superintend the workmen , when they were employed on the repairs necessary to make the building comfortable . From never having been accustomed to the disagreeable practise people have in London of staring rudely at every female , even if old and ugly , as well as handsome , Rose and Jane found this ill-bred trick annoying and unpleasant . One gentleman , whose figure was not in the least prepossessing , between fifty and sixty years of age , with eyes bleared and encircled with red , was exceedingly troublesome to them . They met him in Hyde Park , where they had previously seen him some days before . He followed them from the Park , and began speaking in a gallant manner . They answered not , but turning into Piccadilly , entered a shop to avoid him , and waited there a considerable time , with the hope of getting rid of him ; but , to their extreme mortification , when they came out he was still watching . They went into several shops afterwards , perceiving that he continued to follow ; but all to no purpose , as he persevered in his attendance , till they were obliged to go home . By this method he discovered where they lived , to their excessive mortification . From this period he became quite an annoyance , and was constantly walking or riding by the house , and they scarcely ever dared approach the windows , from the fear of seeing him , as whenever he caught a glimpse of either , he bowed , smiled , or kissed his hand . Rose had received three letters from sir Eglamour — two when he was marching to Portsmouth for embarkation , and one when he was on board , and ready to sail . He mentioned in the last that he did not then know to what place they were going . Soon after their arrival in town , a letter from him was forwarded that had been sent to Treharne . It was not an answer to the one she had written , informing him of their journey to London , but to that he had previously received from her , when he was at Portsmouth , detained by the wind . Sir Eglamour had written this from the coast of Holland , to which place the expedition in which he was engaged was now known to be destined . He requested she would not be uneasy if she did not hear again from him for two or three months , as he should be continually moving about with the army : frequent skirmishes and other engagements , which would cause his constant change of residence , must prevent his writing . He concluded with observing that , although he had an incurable wound in his heart , he hoped he should return unhurt in every other respect , that her constancy might not be shaken by his being disfigured . However , he trusted if the fate of war deprived him of a leg or an arm , that she would not behave to him as the lady did to her lover in Marmontel's Tales . Rose sighed as she perused this , and thought that no event , misfortune , or alteration in his person , could weaken her attachment for him — so good , so brave , and noble-minded , and who truly loved . To restrain her tears at the idea of the dangers he had to encounter she found impossible , as the feeble consolation of hearing from him was now denied her . The first time that she heard the newsman blowing his horn , she could not imagine the meaning of it ; but when it was explained , and Rose learnt that , on any intelligence arriving from abroad , he always announced it , by calling — Great news ! extraordinary news ! and sounding his horn loudly , her affectionate and feeling heart thrilled with agony and terror at the sound . Her whole frame would shake with agitation , fearful of any bad news from the army in Holland . Sometime the newsman blew his horn late at night , when Rose was fast asleep . At this awful noise she awoke frequently , with the most horrible images impressed on her mind . She would fancy that a battle had been fought , and the recollection of her beloved sir Eglamour would be presented to her tortured imagination , perhaps wounded and bleeding . At that moment , how ardently did she wish that she had been his wife , that she might with propriety have shared his danger , attended upon him , and by her tender attention softened his pangs , if ill from wounds or fatigue ! The damp climate of Holland was likewise very unfavourable for the health , and particularly for him , who was only lately recovered from the accident that introduced him to her . A heavy shower of rain prevented Miss Douglas and her sister from taking their usual morning walk . The general postman knocked at the door , and , expecting a letter from their father , which their mother was anxious to receive , Jane ran down the stairs , to see if it was from him , while Rose , eager to know likewise , followed her quickly : but imagine the consternation of both , at seeing captain Courtenay , who had imitated the postman's knock , to get easy and prompt admittance ! Rose retreated to the drawing-room , where her mother was seated , and faintly articulated , to the astonishment of her mother , that captain Courtenay was at the door . Before she could express her surprise , he entered , having followed Jane up stairs . Miss Douglas was quite petrified with his assurance , and remembered the threat that he would come and see her after his marriage , which he had now presumed to realise . Mrs. Douglas felt quite indignant at his presumption in daring to visit them , after his dishonourable , perfidious , and brutal behaviour to her daughter . Influenced by resentment , she said many severe things ; and Rose could not help admiring , guilty as he was , the mildness and patience with which he supported her satirical remarks on him : yet she could not endure to remain any longer in the room with a man who had behaved so cruelly and incorrectly , and retired , leaving him alone with her mother , Jane having quit the apartment before . To the extreme amazement of Rose and her sister , he remained a considerable time with Mrs. Douglas . The interval appeared so long , that they thought he would never have taken his leave . Undoubtedly , said Jane to Rose , they have entered on some agreeable topic of conversation , by his staying . Just as she uttered these words , they had the satisfaction of hearing him depart , and when they returned to the drawing - room , their mother said — I thank you , my dear Rose , for having left the room ; it was perfectly correct of you by that conduct to resent the indignity offered by his presuming to come and see you after his marriage . Does he think that a lady , because she has not a large fortune , is to be insulted with impunity ? He dared not have behaved so to a wealthy woman . What a despicable being to act as he had done ! I cannot think what could possess him to remain all this time , unless he thought of seeing you again , and that you would return to the drawing - room . No other circumstance , I should imagine , would have influenced him to stay , for I have been entertaining him with no other conversation than severe observations , and satirical remarks on himself and family . I must confess that he boar with surprising temper all my satire and severity , and did not once make an ill-natured reply , conscious , like a man of sense , that he had acted unjustly , and that my behaviour proceeded from being irritated at his conduct to my daughter . I did it on purpose to make him feel no inclination to repeat his visit . Sincerely do I hope that my speeches and appearance will be productive of that good effect . Will you allow me to own , my dearest mother , replied Rose , that the manner in which he has conducted himself today has quite pleased me , though I hope never to see him again . It proves , by his enduring all your satirical remarks so patiently , that he is a real gentleman , and would not resent any thing a lady said : but may I never hear of him more ! As Mrs. Douglas was calmly conversing with her daughters on this subject , Kamira came in , with a face red and inflamed with anger ; she looked anxiously at Rose , and then related that having been to a shop in the neighbourhood , she saw captain Courtenay as she returned home , coming from the house . Impressed with the idea that he had been there to repeat his insults to her dear Miss Rose , the Indian could not restrain her anger . In the moment of rage she began reproaching him in the street for his vile conduct , saying , her young lady had got a much better sweetheart than him , whose servant he was not worthy to be . The imperfect English , and the singular mode in which she expressed herself , attracted the attention of the people passing by ; a mob was beginning to collect , and Courtenay gladly ran off , to escape her torrent of severe reproaches . Mrs. Douglas with difficulty suppressed a smile at this account ; yet , while she reprimanded her for her impetuosity , and publicly yielding to her passions , she could not inwardly blame her violence . It was natural for this poor Indian to be incensed against him , after the infamous unfeeling behaviour she had witnessed . Lady Morrington and mademoiselle dae Rimont arrived in town , and called shortly after in South Audley-street . They had heard of sir James Douglas's death , with and exaggerated account of the immense fortune he had left , and that it was all bequeathed to the general . Lady Morrington , who was continually distressed for money , from losing a great deal at cards , of which she was immoderately and imprudently fond , was eager to visit Mrs. Douglas , with the hope of borrowing some money of her . Her ladyship pretended to be delighted to see them , and pressed Mrs. Douglas and her daughters to fix a day to meet a dinner-party at her house . She was so earnest in her invitation , that Mrs. Douglas was at length persuaded to oblige her ladyship , much against her own inclination , and the day was appointed . This ceremony being settled , the conversation happened to turn on the death of sir James , and lady Morrington congratulated them on the acquisition they had received to their fortune . Mrs. Douglas thanked her ladyship , but observed that it was not a certainty that the general would inherit her brother's donation ; and , very unlike a woman of the world , candidly related every circumstance respecting this unfortunate affair . Louise looked deeply concerned at the disappointment they had experienced , though it might not eventually be a real sorrow . Every person acquainted with the storey conceived it to be an invention of the attorney's and Helen's . She was the companion of his vices , and her character , on enquiry , discovered to be very atrocious . The chief vexation was the trouble , expense , and separation of the general , which it caused , from his family ; but at all events , it was a serious inconvenience for him , after the money he had expended on this occasion , to be so long without receiving any part of the fortune . Lady Morrington was however of a different opinion , quite unpropitious to their interest , and her manners changed accordingly . It was the dazzling prospect of their having a large inheritance divided among them that made her so attentive . Hardly could she disguise her mortification at having been thus eager to visit them in town : she was convinced , since they had no claim to opulence , that they would soon sink into insignificance , judging too justly of the dispositions of others by her own . The idea that they might , if distressed , make some demand on her purse , from believing her insincere professions of friendship , filled her with terror . How deeply did she regret having asked them to dinner ! for , with all her unblushing confidence , it was impossible to decline receiving them , whom she had persuaded so urgently to accept her invitation . To hide her chagrin , her ladyship wished them good-morning , and retired , followed by Louise , who , being accustomed for several years to observe every emotion that affected her , quickly penetrated the meaning of her altered looks and manners , and secretly despised a mind so selfish and worldly . The moment that her carriage drove from the door , Mrs. Douglas went out with her daughters , to purchase many articles of dress for them and her son , at a linendraper's her ladyship had eagerly recommended soon after she came in . Lady Morrington was considerably in his debt , and hoped to pacify him by recommending a wealthy customer . She had informed Mrs. Douglas that he would give her credit , if she mentioned her ladyship's name , as Mrs. Douglas did not find it convenient , till she received remittances from Scotland , to expend any ready money . Having made their purchases , they returned to South Audley-street , and found Miss Herbert waiting for them . Mary flew to embrace her friend Rose , who said that she was disappointed at not having seen her before , as she understood she had been in London a fortnight , from mademoiselle dae Rimont . Knowing , as I flatter myself you do , how sincerely I love you , replied Mary , you will surely not attribute my absence to any diminution of regard , but to the real cause — extreme occupation . I wish that meddling Dae Rimont had not told you any thing about it . You are too partial to her . Pardon me — I do not judge more highly of her than she deserves . Don't be angry ; but I think you guilty of an unpardonable piece of folly , in being infatuated with this friend of a few summer months , and a Frenchwoman too . Forgive my prejudices and frankness , Rose , and do not suffer your hopes to triumph over your reason . You mistake , dear Mary , said Miss Douglas , I have known Louise some years . Yes , but you generally meet with her but a short time during the fine weather , and I wish you to give the preference to your own countrywomen , who are more sincere in their friendships , and as constant as they are in love . When I am absent from you , instead of lessening , it heightens my regard . But I will tell you all about the engagements that have detained me from you , if your sister and yourself will pass the whole day with me tomorrow . We shall be very happy , and I can answer for it , exceedingly merry , as we are none of us insipid characters . Rose and her sister assured Mary that they accepted her invitation with delight . You were speaking , Miss Herbert , observed Mrs. Douglas , of friendship . A true friendship needs not the foreign aid of ornament , any more than beauty . It will demonstrate itself by its actions : sleeping or waking it will go actively on . This state is not often found , whose principle is established on virtue , and supported by sincerity . May this description of friendship my mother has given us , ever exist between you and me ! said Rose to Mary : but you have not told me if you had , as usual , an agreeable journey , and made any visits on your way to town that you liked . We stayed two days at a gentleman's house in Devonshire — a beautiful place , replied Mary ; and it had novelty to recommend it , as I never was there before ; and only think of my having dined there with your old friend captain Burton . Numberless enquiries he made after you and the whole family . He admires you extremely , rejoined Rose , with a smile ; deep is the impression you have made on his mind . He is a lively agreeable man , but no power on earth could tempt me to have him . If he was rich , and a lord , I should perhaps think differently . I am not blind to the fine prospects held out by the word interest . Have you not discovered , in your commerce with this guilty world , that in general interest stands instead of heart ? But what think you of London ? It is a gay scene , full of variety and entertainment . We have been to Coventgarden theatre , which much amused us . It pleases me to hear this . I love plays as well as a child , and I hope we shall often go to the theatre together . But you call London gay : you will kill me with laughing , if you repeat such an absurdity . The town is quite empty now , and the stupidest place under the sun , for that reason . However , I am very ridiculous in asserting this , when I recollect that it is your first visit to such a whirligig place . If I am not mistaken , you were never here before , above two days , on your journey to Devonshire ? Rose replied in the affirmative , and Mary hurried away , saying she must leave them , fascinating as they were , having several morning visits to make . Chapter III . First taught to bear the chill unmindful eye , Of once-fond friendship shrunk to charity , The sly slow taunt — the frequent stab bestowed On poverty , too long in pomp's abode . V According to their appointment with Miss Herbert , Rose and her sister waited upon her at her father's house in Piccadilly . The situation was most cheerful , and Jane amused herself with gazing at the variety of passing objects . When she was tyred with this occupation , she played on a fine - toned lute of Mary's , and entertained herself likewise in reading and examining an extensive well-chosen library , that contained , beside a valuable collection of books , large portfolios of engravings that were very amusing . Jane occupied her time in this manner , that Rose might converse with her friend , unrestrained by the presence of a third person . Mary confided to Miss Douglas , that she was soon going to be married to a nobleman Mr. Herbert approved , and displayed to Rose the superb jewels and elegant dresses presented for this joyful occasion . In the event of her marriage , Miss Herbert observed that she should be more her own mistress than at present , and could have her friend to reside frequently with her . If Rose would consent to live constantly with her , it would add , she said , to their happiness ; and she could liberally assist her , if she required it , with money or any thing she wanted , having a very handsome settlement from her intended husband . This was in consequence of the large fortune Mr. Herbert had bestowed on her , which made her enjoy the felicity of being able to evince affection for those she loved . Rose expressed her gratitude for such disinterested friendship and generous offers , and then related the uneasiness , disappointment , and cost , in which they had been involved since her uncle's decease , from a new claimant having started up to demand sir James's property , which had caused infinite trouble to her father , and vexation to the whole family . Unlike lady Morrington , the intelligence of this misfortune seemed rather to augment than diminish her attachment . The poisonous breath of selfishness , of sordid parsimony , and ignoble meanness , had not yet tainted her youthful mind , though the contagion was difficult to escape . However little worthy you may think me of the honour , exclaimed Mary , I take it upon me the title of your friend . Apply to me whenever you want any thing . Though grandeur , rank , fortune , now await me , I am convinced that the hours we pass together will be the happiest of my life . If that vulnerable heart of yours , said Mary , laughing , that has undergone so many attacks that very little can be left , should be again deprived of the object of its regard , I shall , when you reside with me , select a husband for you . Rose smiled , and observed that she was more goodnatured than the generality of her sex , who are not disposed to marry off their friends — but hoped never to require her services on such an occasion . This day was one of the happiest that Rose had ever passed . Each contracted new delight from the society of the other , their hearts being united , like two flowers on one stem . They were grateful to Jane for allowing them to converse without restraint . The principal subjects that interested them , were Mary's approaching marriage , and her plans for serving Rose , and having her often at her house . They separated with reluctance , but met two days afterwards at lady Morrington's , where they had been engaged to dine . Her ladyship had received them coldly , and had contrived to invite only those who were in town , that already knew them , with the exception of one lady , and an insignificant individual , a Mr. Foster , who endured neglect and impertinence for the sake of a good dinner . Lady Morrington was determined to avoid mortifying herself , by escaping the humiliation of introducing girls not endowed with fortune to any more of her acquaintance . Lady Elinor Murray , daughter to the earl of Arlberry , was very good-humoured , and on a visit at lady Morrington's , therefore it was impossible to prevent her being present . The rest of the party consisted of lady Harvey , Miss Herbert and her admirer lord Beaufort , sir Henry Arundel , thee count dae Fontenai , and Mr. Foster , who , to their great astonishment , when he was presented to their notice , proved to be the gentleman that had followed them from Hyde-Park , and was so troublesome in walking before the house , and watching them continually . They mutually smiled at a rencontre so unexpected and unforeseen , at which the sisters were the more surprised , as they discovered , from enquiries after his wife and children , that he was a married man , which made the levity of his conduct to them inexcusable . Lady Elinor was very interesting , about five-and-twenty . Her person was small , but delicately formed , with the gentlest manners , and a countenance soft , fair , and pleasing . The dinner was exceedingly splendid , but , like all magnificent banquets , tedious , dull , and fatiguing . Miss Douglas was delighted when this ceremony was over , and the ladies retired to the drawing-room . Lady Elinor had been placed near her at table , and she was quite fascinated with her new companion , who was unassuming , and rather reserved at first . Her ladyship's reserve wore off by degrees , and she then seemed equally pleased with Rose . Miss Herbert was engaged in conversation with lady Harvey till her lover and the other gentlemen joined them at tea . Lord Beaufort then occupied all her attention ; and Rose was at liberty to enjoy the society of her new acquaintance . Dae Fontenai attached himself to Jane , and lady Harvey to Mrs. Douglas . Felix was attentive to lady Morrington , and conversed occasionally with lady Elinor and his sister . Sir Henry Arundel ( more in love than ever with Rose ) watched every opportunity of being near them ; and Mr. Foster appeared to be attracted by the same magnet . I was informed , said sir Henry , that in consequence of the fire at Treharne you had quit that sylvan scene , where weeds and flowers promiscuous shoot , for the devastating metropolis , genial to nothing but corruption . This information made me likewise quit it , since it had no longer any attraction . In the country , observed Mr. Foster , you had leisure to examine the qualities and perfections of Miss Douglas's mind ; and no doubt the inspection has justified the promise of excellence . I am myself convinced that she is as prudent as she is lovely , alluding , as he spoke , to her rejection of his gallantry in the street . Rose understood his meaning , and thought her merit on this occasion very trifling , as it did not require much prudence , or any self-denial , to reject the advances of a plain , disagreeable , old man : but he thought otherwise of his alluring powers . If it is worth Miss Douglas's consideration , replied sir Henry , I will acknowledge that she has my entire approbation ; and I look forward with anxious hope that our acquaintance will terminate in unerring friendship . I wish she may remain but a short time in town , as I fear that late hours and hot rooms will destroy that fine bloom that mantles on her cheek . We live nearly as retired as if we were in the country , observed Rose . I am always enlivened , said lady Elinor , at the prospect of returning into the country , to enjoy the innocent , rational , and rural pursuits . When confined for any length of time to the smoke of London , I almost envy every one who talks of going out of town . I wish lady Elinor , exclaimed sir Henry , and Miss Douglas would allow me to watch over their health and happiness , while they grace the metropolis . They should condemn my skill , and drive me from the regions of taste and elegance , if they did not approve my management . Here Mr. Foster joined again in the conversation , saying — I am disposed to punish your conceit , sir Henry , and laugh at your vanity , in presuming to suppose you can obtain the power of guiding as you please these lovely creatures , for whom so many sigh . Those harsh observations of yours , Foster , proceed from the natural severity of your temper and splenetic humour , that tinctures your disposition . You are a Benedick of many years — no wonder then you have the spleen ; nor can you , by your censure , alter — no , not by one jot , my opinion , or prevent me from expressing my admiration of the gentle lady Elinor , and my fair friend here . Jesting apart , I agree with you , sir Henry , in all that relates to their captivation . Thoughtless of danger , I have approached those blazing meteors , Miss Douglas's eyes , that shine but to destroy . But , I trust , from her amiableness , that since ( as a married man ) I have no hopes from her pity , she will make ample amends to you , for having torn and burned your poor heart to tinder , by transplanting her own . But a truce to this nonsense — I will wish you all good-night , and occupy no more of your time , already too much consumed with my trifling . When Mr. Foster , was gone , Rose observed , that he had good manners , and was truly polite . You will find I am right , replied sir Henry , when I caution you to beware of his politeness , and assumed good-humour . How wicked must be the world , you will think , when good-nature and civility are causes for suspicion ! Poor man ! with all his vices , I pity him from my soul ! It is melancholy in old age to have no comfortable home , and depend on credulity for subsistence in the silly town of London , though I believe it is a safe dependence . He will most probably endeavour to intrude himself at your house — but to encourage the visits of such a man is a stupidity to which I am sure you are superior . From his wife and children he has been separated for many years ; the former he never loved , having married her for a large fortune , which he soon squandered away , leaving his wife and family , for their subsistence , the scanty pittance settled on her . By flattery , and making himself agreeable , he gets admittance into many fashionable houses , and as he creates amusement , is tolerated , till he disgusts by too frequent attacks on their purse . Rose felt grateful to sir Henry for this delineation of Mr. Foster's character . She had judged he was unworthy , by obtruding his conversation in the street , when he perceived his gallantry was disagreeable to them . Soon after he left them , the party separated for the evening . Mary Herbert said to Rose , as she took them home in her carriage — I think this first sortie of your fashionable campaign in town very brilliant . Sincerely do I hope it may proceed in the same manner . I know the uncertainty of every thing , and cannot feel quite so sanguine about it as you appear , replied Rose , smiling , who had remarked the freezing coldness and hauteur of lady Morrington — a change most striking in her manners , that were formerly ( in general ) affable and pleasing , and seldom developed any trait of her natural character . Louise was confined to her apartment with a cold , and Rose was disappointed at not having had the pleasure of seeing her . The long-expected letter from Scotland at length arrived ; but the perusal of it , alas ! was productive of sorrow only . It was not written by the general , but Mr. Moncrief , who mentioned how painful it was for him to impart the heart-wounding intelligence that general Douglas had been confined several days to his bed . A fever had been the consequence of the mental agitation and fatigue he had undergone , in the fruitless search for the clergyman and Davie M'Gregor . Mrs. Douglas was agonised as she perused their friend's letter . The best of men and of husbands pressed the couch of sickness , caused by severe misfortune , now could she hesitate a moment in flying to attend on him . Her mind was torn with contending emotions , at the idea of leaving her daughters in so dangerous a place as London , and with cruel agony at the situation of her loved husband , from whom she could not endure to be absent . Feeling it her inclination , as well as duty , to go directly to him , the conflict and trial were almost too much for her affectionate bosom : yet she decided directly how to act , and checked , as much as possible , after the first shock , the anguish that racked her breast , that her frame might be enabled to support whatever acute misery was in store for her . Mrs. Douglas recommended her daughters to the protection of their brother . It was the only source of comfort that he was with them , though she feared that consolation would not last long , as his leave of absence was nearly expired . But , unwilling to anticipate evil , from being too well acquainted with real sorrow , she hoped he would be able to renew the permission , and desired he would write to his colonel , to request it as a particular favour . Mrs. Douglas likewise requested Mr. and Mrs. Linn to be attentive to Rose and Jane , assuring them , that at some future period it would be in her power to reward any kindness her children experienced from them . The advice she now gave her son and daughters was nearly the same as when she left them before , except that she still more impressively intreated them to be prudent and correct , as the town was replete with dangers for young people who were not very cautious in their conduct . Their mother desired also that they would decline every invitation , their father's critical state of health being a sufficient excuse ; and by acting in this manner , they would avoid expending money , which was not convenient , in the embarrassed situation of their finances . She likewise exhorted them to be as economical as possible on every occasion ; and having previously taken a place in the coach for Scotland , left her daughters and Kamira in tears , though she would not suffer hers to flow . The countenance of Felix betrayed a manly sensibility , though he had too much resolution to yield to feminine weakness . He attend his mother to the stage , and then returned to sooth the affliction of his sisters with every proof of fraternal regard . In the afternoon of the day when their excellent parent quit them for Scotland , Rose was seated at work alone in the drawing-room ; Kamira came up , and interrupted her meditations , as she worked , by saying a man , who looked like a respectable tradesman , wished to speak to Mrs. Douglas's oldest daughter . Rose desired him to be admitted , and Kamira then announced the linendraper , of whom Mrs. Douglas had purchased various articles . I understand , Miss , said the man , awkwardly bowing , that your mamma is gone out of town without paying my bill . It is shabby behaviour , to go without settling my little account . I think it had bad usage from a stranger , quite a swindling piece of business : living , too , in genteel apartments . They tell me , Miss , you be of age , and I shall look to you for the cash . My mother , replied Rose , mildly , was informed by lady Morrington that you would give her credit if she made use of her ladyship's name . You may be certain of having your money , though not immediately , as we are engaged in an expensive lawsuit , that embarrasses us at present . That's neither here nor there to me , Miss . I'll not be wronged : right's right . What's you or your affairs to me ? You need not speak about my lady ; she's slow enough in her payments ; obliged to dance attendance for years before one can see the colour of her money . Beside , she's no friend of yours . I went to ask if her ladyship would be answerable for the goods you have taken , and she said — By no means . What's more , she told me it was very extravagant of such poverty-struck people to buy so many things . She thought it a great liberty , too , of your mamma , to make use of her name . I am astonished to hear this ! exclaimed Rose : what an artful woman lady Morrington must be , to speak so disrespectfully , after urging my mother to deal at your shop , and asserting that you always gave credit . A pretty customer indeed my lady has recommended ! However , young lady , I must tell you at once the long and the short of the business : if you do not send me fifteen pounds by twelve o'clock tomorrow morning , I shall find means to force you to pay it . You have had part of the goods , and I say again , I shall look to you , not to your mamma . She is a married woman , her husband away , and now gone off herself ; so that I can't come upon her . I hear as how your papa is an officer — the worst people in the world to do business with : they never pay — here today , gone tomorrow . Altogether , it's a swindling transaction , and , once for all , you must send the money , as I have told you , or you'll know the consequence , for pay you must and shall ! So your servant , Miss ; and , as he uttered these words , before Rose could reply , he vulgarly banged the drawing-room door after him , leaving poor Miss Douglas nearly in a state of distraction , from never having experienced such ill-bred and unfeeling insolence . She was not intimate enough with lady Harvey to ask any pecuniary favour ; and even if she had , Rose knew she was often distressed for money herself . Her only friend in London , who could assist her , was Miss Herbert , as from lady Morrington no relief could be expected , after such glaring duplicity . These reflections influenced her to write a note , which she instantly dispatched by Kamira to Mary Herbert . In a few hurried lines , which evinced her distress , she requested the loan of fifteen pounds , the sum owing to the hard-hearted linendraper . The faithful Kamira , to whom she confided what had happened , went off with tears in her eyes ; and Rose then sought her sister , to impart this additional sorrow . Jane was overwhelmed with affliction at the sufferings Rose was destined to endure , but endeavoured to lessen her uneasiness , by representing that the man only threatened , from being prejudiced against them by lady Morrington . She could not imagine he would be so uncommonly severe as to put his menaces in execution , and if he did , advised her not to be alarmed , as Mary Herbert , who was so wealthy , and going to be well married , would certainly serve her , after such ardent professions of friendship . Rose was too much depressed by melancholy to be equally confident of success , as Mary might not have that sum by her . Her heart sunk with dejection at being deprived , thus critically situated , of her mother's advice . Yet , on second thoughts , she rejoiced at her absence , as she would gladly undergo the severest calamity to shield her poor mother from it . Kamira returned quickly with an answer . Rose , overcome with agitation , tore open the note , and found it contained a cold refusal . Mary Herbert replied , that she had not so large a sum as fifteen pounds in the house , having expended all her ready money in preparations for her wedding , which was to take place in a few days . It was her intention afterwards to look out for a trinket to send her as a remembrance , and advised her to apply to some other friend . Mary then coolly concluded with wishing her well out of all her difficulties . Insensibly ( as she finished reading this coldhearted note ) tears of wounded sensibility trickled down her lovely face . They were not caused by disappointment at being refused assistance , but from heartfelt grief , at discovering that the friend she fervently loved , with purest truth , was deceitful and hard-hearted . All hope of relief was vanished ; yet the dread of danger did not pain her so acutely as the knowledge of her beloved Mary's selfishness , and insensible , frigid , and pitiless mind . She wished to become indifferent to her , but it was not an easy task , after the sincere affection she had entertained for her unfeeling friend . Miss Douglas was bewildered in thinking how to extricate herself , as her expectations from Mary were disappointed . To apply to any slight acquaintance she could not endure , and it was distressing to expose her misfortunes to people who knew but little of her , and only paid attention to herself and family from supposing they had inherited her uncle's property . Poor Kamira , who perceived in her expressive countenance the anguish that tortured this undeservedly-unfortunate young lady , was miserable , her affectionate and faithful disposition causing her to more than share every pang that agonised her favourite Miss Rose . She was attached to the whole family , but for her she would willingly have resigned existence ; the joys and sufferings of the ill-fated Rose were hers . Miss Douglas had told her to be careful of the answer she brought back from Mary Herbert , as there would probably be money in it . When Kamira saw her open the letter , and perceived it did not contain what she expected , in an agitated voice she exclaimed — Me think Miss Herbert grow very proud , like peacock , that spread his tail out . Me say that lady no good . She got fine gowns , with gold flowers and silver , lay about her room , and fine feathers , like what Esquimaux wear ; me have such in my country . Me look on her table ; there be bright , shiny stones , she put on her neck , and her head , and in her ears , like Indian . Me saw in her hand a long purse , stuffed with paper moneys ; she plenty , and so conceit , run , look in glass over chimney , then other glass at window . She keep grin , look at herself every minute — never look me but when she give letter . Me sure she could help you , if she please — O , she had heart — worse than mountaineer . Rose sighed . — I cannot think so unkindly of her as you do , Kamira . Prosperity has made her giddy , and I will own that I have seen an alteration for the worse since her intended marriage with lord Beaufort . She was more humble before , for , however rich her father , she had no rank in society ; the knowledge , therefore , that by her marriage with lord Beaufort , she would acquire distinction , and be enabled to go to court , which she could not before , has elated her vanity ; with a heart swelling with gratified pride , she cannot feel compassion for the woes of others , being wholly engrossed by self - love . But this delirium of arrogance will , I hope , subside , and the native goodness of heart I have always concluded she possessed will dispel the mists of haughtiness , conceit , and selfishness . Me heard from her servants her father have her by a cook . Miss Herbert , daughter of cook , or lady's waiting-maid . I have heard that report , and understand she is the daughter of a servant , but not so obscure as a cook . However , the obscurity of her origin by her mother's side never lessened her in my opinion . Noble minds often grace the meanest stations of life , and I sincerely wish her conduct may do honour to the elevated situation in which she is going to move . No one will then reflect on her being illegitimate , and the offspring of a vulgar servant . If she not behave like a lady , and insult her betters , me say Miss Herbert sprung from a dunghill , and by dirty pride and hard heart she show it . I will not hear you say any more on this subject , Kamira . I trust she will yet prove herself the friend she professed to be , which her flattering words , and warm affectionate letters , that I have not carefully preserved , as I valued them from the attachment she avowed for me in them , will prove . I never doubted her sincerity , and if she neglects me , and evinces dark deceit , the only cause , and my crime , in her eyes , is not being so fortunate as herself . Had I been her , I would have disposed of some of my jewels , rather than have refused to assist a friend . My mother has often embarrassed herself to serve her friends , and I would do the same . Kamira was silent , as she observed it was displeasing to her young lady to hear Miss Herbert spoke of with contempt , notwithstanding her insincerity and deception . Rose now wrote to the linendraper by the two-penny post , entreating he would suspend the harsh measures he had threatened , till she received news from Edinburgh , when she had no doubt , if he had patience , of a remittance being enclosed , part of which she would , without delay , forward to him . This she hoped would pacify him for some time , and in that interval she flattered herself it would be in her power to liquidate his debt . Miss Douglas desired Kamira and her sister to keep Felix in ignorance of what had passed , as it would only make him unhappy , and answer no good purpose . Her brother was going to Richmond , in the evening , on a visit for a fortnight , and Rose trusted to have this unpleasant affair settled before his return . More anxious for the happiness of others that she regarded , than her own , it was always her wish to avoid wounding the feelings of those she loved . Her parents only were dearer to her than her brave , her amiable brother . Two days had elapsed since the linendraper's disagreeable visit . Early on the third morning , Rose had just sunk into a profound slumber , from having been awake the greater part of the night with anxiety . This refreshing sleep , that would have invigorated her harassed form , was soon disturbed by a loud , violent noise , as if several people were quarrelling . Jane had risen and left the apartment , but Rose quickly distinguished her voice and Kamira's in high-spirited altercation with some person . At length she heard Kamira distinctly say — Me tell you she not here ; me tell you Miss Douglas out of town . That instant Rose was overcome with horror , suspecting too truly the occasion of these sounds . She jumped out of bed , and bolted the door . The noise and voices grew louder and louder , till they approached the chamber-door , and she heard two men talking violently to Kamira . The men then tried to open her door , saying — She is here . Kamira replied — Me tell you no ; another lady sleep in that room . You punished you disturb lady . At these words the men retreated down the stairs , to the inexpressible alleviation of her terror , having remained trembling in bed all the time . Rose hoped she had escaped , and that they had left the house , as every thing was still for a few minutes ; but , to her melancholy disappointment , the noise commenced again . She heard the men running up the stairs , and one of them exclaimed — Miss Douglas is certainly in this room : come , Dick , let us break open the door . From these circumstances and exclamations combined , Rose had guessed the truth , and was convinced these men were bailiffs , sent to arrest her by the linendraper . It was better , she judged , to avoid having the door broken open , and called out — Gentlemen , if you will have patience , I will surrender myself , without your being obliged to use force ; I merely request you will allow me time to dress . Certainly , madam , said one of the men ; if you are civil we will be so too . I shall amuse myself in making love to your maid ; it is a pity she is so abusive . You make me love ! me hate you . You be beast ! you be wretch ! The men only laughed , while she continued to scold them , till her young lady was dressed , and came out to them . Miss Douglas had been rather slow in dressing , as her hands shook , and she could scarcely stand . In vain she endeavoured to console Kamira , who was drowned in tears , bitterly lamenting her hapless fate . She then asked permission of the men to speak privately with her sister , which they granted . Rose gave Jane some money , and intreated she would keep up her spirits , as she was nearly fainting . With all the fortitude she could assume , Rose now prepared to meet this severe trial , though Jane almost banished her resolution by exclaiming , and weeping as she spoke — How will you be able to bear this , ill as you already are with sorrow ? God will give me strength , replied Rose ; and , returning to the men , informed them she was ready . Interested by her appearance and manners , the bailiffs , though most hard-hearted , were very polite and respectful . Finding that she objected to going from the door to the spunging-house in a coach , as it might cause the neighbours to discover the affair , one of the men took her writing - desk , and a bundle of clothes , as it was uncertain how long she would be confined , and walked out first ; Rose followed him , and the other bailiff left the house a little while after , and walked at a short distance , so that neither appeared to belong to her . When they had gone through two or three streets , the men called a hackney-coach ; they handed her into it with great respect , and then got in afterwards , ordering the coachman where to drive . As they drove along , the men humanely endeavoured to comfort her ; and that she might not think it disgraceful to be arrested , told her that a lady of quality had been confined a fortnight in the same house to which she was going , and a captain in the army also . The captain had been in high spirits when he first entered ; but so many debts had lately appeared against him , that he had confined himself to his bed from vexation , and was to be sent very shortly to the King's Bench . One of the men said he expected to be taken to prison himself for debt , and informed her likewise of the best way to proceed to get speedily released . The misery in which she was involved did not prevent her from being pleased with the civility and respect of her rough companions . At last the coach arrived , and stopped before the gloomy spunging-house . The heart of the unfortunate Rose sunk deeply when she gazed with horror at the iron - barred windows , where desolation seemed to reign triumphant . The men perceived the change in her countenance , and , to weaken the effect the shock had on her mind , told her the confinement would be very short , if she wrote directly to her friends , as every letter she might rely on having carefully forwarded . The street-door opened , and she was ushered through another inner door , well secured with iron bars and bolts , etc. The men delivered up her property , and she was then conducted into a small drawing - room , on the first floor , furnished neatly , with a pianoforte in it . Rose immediately sat down to her desk , and wrote letters to every one she thought likely to serve her , and dispatched them off . She had not tasted any food since she had been up , and an elderly squint-eyed woman , who was the servant of the house , came in and asked if she would like breakfast ? Rose replied that she could not eat any thing , but would partake of an early dinner instead . This woman , whose appearance she did not like , though exceedingly attentive , said — Come , Miss , and play a tune on the piano , to amuse yourself . I seldom play when I am happy , rejoined Rose , and now I am too much out of spirits to entertain myself with music . You'll be better by and by , Miss ; you'll get more used to it . At that moment the man who opened the inner door to keep the prisoners secure , entered to demand some silver , to go and search the office , he said , to see if there were any detainers . Rose assured them that could not be , not having any debts as even this they had arrested her for was not hers . The man replied , that made no difference — it was a form always observed . A porter that she had sent with a note to Miss Herbert , and whom she had desired to see on his return , now entered the room , staggering drunk . — There is no answer , Miss , said he ; the lady was married this very morning , and gone out of town . Pray is this , holding out a glass of gin ( which the mistress of the house had given him , as it rained hard ) is this all I'm to have for my trouble ? Certainly not , replied Rose ; here are two shillings for you . Thank you , Miss , thank you ; I'll serve you by night or by day , since you behave so generous , for nothing . I have a darter — there is not such another , she is so clever . She knows substraction , compounds , and all . My wife , too , was as pretty a woman as ever was seen , before she lost her eye and her leg ; but I don't like to remind her of her misfortins , for she is as good a wife as need be . I must say I have health , money , beauty — every thing . He continued boasting , and Rose , though mortified at having employed this drunken being , could not help but smiling at his vanity , as he was humpbacked , old , and ordinary in his person . She saw the door close on him with pleasure , and , when her elderly attendant came , desired that this intoxicated man might not be sent with any letters or messages for her again . Different people belonging to the house , women , girls , and men , entered the apartment occasionally , with some excuse or other , which Rose imagined was to examine her person that they might know it well , in case she attempted to escape . During this interval , when severe mortification and heart-rending anguish overwhelmed her , not a tear fell from her eye , or sigh heaved her bosom . She sat immovable , and stupified with sorrow . While Rose was thus situated , the elderly woman came in and said — A gentleman , Miss . At that instant captain Courtenay entered . Rose gazed on him with an eye of vacancy , and , absorbed in her own painful reflections , scarcely recollected he was in existence till her addressed her . What freak is this ? he exclaimed . I should as soon have expected to see the emperor of Russia here as you . Though you had become indifferent to me , which you will say is a rude speech , I could not hear of your imprisonment without coming to extricate you , on condition that you reward my passion , for I am not cut out for platonic love . No , no , my dear girl , it is too cold and barren ; mutual tenderness is the soul of real attachment . How dare you , sir , speak to me of love ? It is profaning so noble a sentiment for your lips to mention it ; it is not becoming in a married man . Do not presume on my misfortunes : I would sooner meet death , in its most horrid shape , than act with impropriety . Never could you persuade me to listen to you with patience or complaisance . I will give you my ideas , replied Courtenay , in the words of a charming French author — Je vous avouerai qu'un sentiment profane , Quand je vois vos appas , soe glisse dans mon cœur , Loe moral est , chez moi , toute raison du physique , Aet malgré loe respect dae mon pudique ardeur , Je ne suis point fait pour l'amour platonique . Or if you wish to have it in plain English , it runs thus — I must confess that a profane sentiment glides into my heart whenever I see your charms ; and , in spite of my virtuous ardour , I am not intended to be a Joseph : yet I do not desire to influence you against your inclination ; I like to be indebted to the affect of a woman for the happiness she may bestow . Indignation gave Rose spirit to reply — You have no right to insult me with your presence . Had you wished to serve me as a friend , and make some atonement for your crimes to me , you could have done it without mortifying me with the sight of you . I shall leave you , and say no more now , as I intend calling tomorrow . Consult your heart in the meanwhile , and reflect whether you will be a neglected prude , or a beloved darling . Conquer your prejudices about my being married ; every sensible person will laugh at them . Rose made him no answer , being quite exhausted with the exertion of speaking to him before , as she felt exceedingly weak and faint . He now wished her good - morning , saying she might depend on seeing him again , when he hoped to find her in a better and more reasonable humour . It was with indescribably satisfaction that she saw him depart , and it was some pleasure that his visit had been short ; yet the prospect of a repetition of it , when he would probably conduct himself differently , caused in her perturbed mind the most serious apprehension . She resolved therefore to request , as a very great favour , of the master and mistress of the house , that they would not allow captain Courtenay to be admitted to her apartment . Yet the idea of their not complying with her entreaties , and being forced to see him the next day , thrilled her with horror . The recollection of her beloved sir Eglamour made her still more averse to meeting this worthless man , as she could not endure expressions of attachment from any one but him she faithfully loved , and who merited the most true and exquisite tenderness . Inwardly she implored Heaven to rescue her from a trial so severe , and from the house that now sheltered her , as the thought of sleeping in such a place was misery most poignant . The windows were all fenced with strong bars ; even the yard at the back of the house was guarded with bars at the top , which alarmed her in the case of fire . Should such an accident happen , Rose feared that escape would be impossible , more particularly as the squinting woman told her she was to sleep in one of the attics near her ; it was very dangerous , if the house was on fire , to be on the highest floor in it . Her uneasiness was likewise increased by the look and manner of this woman , to whom she felt an involuntary repugnance , notwithstanding her civility . At two o'clock the mistress of the house sent up her dinner , cooked so indifferently that she only ate a few mouthfuls , which refreshed her very little ; and for this wretched meal they charged her an enormous price . After dinner , her mother's landlord , Mr. Linn , called to see her , and enquired if he could be of any service ? At the sight of him , who reminded Rose of her mother , her sister , and Felix , from whom she was at present most painfully separated , she was overcome with emotion , and for the first time since her captivity burst into tears . With humanity that would have graced a more exalted station , the good man strove to impart consolation , and offered to go anywhere , or convey any messages for her . In consequence of these obliging offers , Rose requested him to wait on her father's solicitor , and explain her situation . She then asked after Jane , and was informed that she suffered inexpressible affliction , not having forgotten that she was a sister . Mr. Linn went away . Evening came , and no favourable event , promising her release , had yet occurred . Tea was brought to her , and while she was drinking it , and endeavouring to reconcile her mind to remaining all night , as it appeared inevitable , footsteps were heard coming hastily up stairs . Many persons were confined in this house , which the woman said was nearly full ; therefore different people were constantly going up and down , which excluded every hope of its being visitors to herself , till the door suddenly opened . Two respectable strangers entered ; one of them , a tall handsome young man , imparted the pleasing intelligence that he was arrived to restore her to liberty , and the other , considerably older , a short , stout , dark man , she found was employed by the lawyer who had arrested her by desire of the linendraper . The handsome young man observed , that it was a very unpleasant situation for a lady , and Rose replied that it was both new and distressing indeed . He now produced a paper , which he desired her to sign , and left the room for a few minutes . When he was gone , the dark man seemed to pity her , and said it was shameful to arrest a lady for so trifling a sum . You will think it much worse then , rejoined Rose , when you hear that it is my mother's debt , not mine . I do not understand any thing of law , but I should imagine the people who have acted thus unjustly might be punished ; beside , I perceive in this paper they have arrested me in my mother's name , Caroline Douglas , and not in the name of Rose Douglas . You had better sign Caroline Douglas , replied the dark man ; but before she had done so the handsome young man returned , who said — Miss Douglas , your servant is here ; shall she be admitted ? Rose thanked him , and answered in the affirmative . He went out again , and introduced Kamira , whose countenance , strikingly altered with weeping the greater part of the day , quite affected Rose , who could scarcely recognise her . The handsome man now requested Miss Douglas to sign the paper with her own name , though she told him the other gentleman desired she would not . He now requested the people of the house to bring their bill , in a very harsh voice . It amounted to a great deal , as they charged extravagantly for the use of the room , fire , candles , and the uncomfortable meals they had provided . Kamira had brought a hackney-coach , which waited to convey her lady home . The gentlemen attended her down stairs , and the porter at the inner door requested she would give him some money . Reluctantly she gave him eighteen-pence , and the woman three shillings , at which Kamira grumbled , saying — You ought not give money to people lock you up — make you prisoner . The gentlemen took leave of Rose , who got into the coach with a joy not to be described or conceived , but by those who have experienced the misery of such a situation . It was impossible for her to guess who had procured her liberty , but , highly rejoiced at the circumstance , she would not make herself uneasy about it . Oh me , me cannot say , exclaimed Kamira , what me suffer at see you sitting in the prison-room with the two gentlemen ! Me thought my poor heart burst ; but me happy now . I am sorry to have been the occasion of making you unhappy , my faithful creature , replied Rose : but let us only think of the happiness I now enjoy . I cannot conjecture to whose goodness I am indebted for my freedom . Ah , me know all about it . It's sweet , pretty lady Elinor , exclaimed Kamira . She called with elderly gentleman to see you . When she ask me for you , I wring my hands , I shake my head , and cry very much — say too , you take away by two wicked men . My lady ask where you gone , name of street , and gentleman too . Me tell her all about it . My lady say , don't fret , you see her again ; she shall be with you at night . Me go down on my knees , me kiss her feet ; but she not let me — she give me her little white hand to kiss . This night elderly gentleman come to me ; he give me money to pay hackney-coach , and told me to go fetch you from spungy - house : that is all . What an angel lady Elinor is ! said Rose . I feel grateful to her beyond the power of language to express . Almost a stranger to me , and to have such angelic goodness and compassion , while those who have known me much longer neglect and forsake me , because I am in distress , after the most ardent and unasked professions of friendship . How I shall ever love her ! It appears as if this new friend was sent to console me for the loss of one I truly loved . The hackney-coach now stopped at her lodgings in South Audley-street , where Jane welcomed her sister with unfeigned pleasure . Never had Jane displayed more sensibility than at the fatal instant when Rose was conveyed from their residence to the spunging-house , which imparted a pleasing consolation , as it convinced her sister she had become more affectionate than formerly . Adversity is the only school for improving the mind . Rose immediately wrote a letter of grateful acknowledgement to lady Elinor , in which she mentioned that she was anxious to soon have an opportunity of expressing her thanks in person , and hoped her ladyship would indulge her by calling shortly in South Audley-street . Mr. and Mrs. Linn received her on her return with the utmost cordiality , and were rejoiced at her not having remained all night in confinement , having , they assured her , been very uneasy , from the fear that she would be detained at the spunging-house till the next day . Rose was exceedingly pleased with their behaviour , having been apprehensive of their treating her with disrespect , from the disagreeable circumstance of her having been arrested , which convinced her they were worthy good people . Lady Elinor waited on Miss Douglas the following morning , with the elderly gentleman Kamira had spoken of . He was a distant relation of the earl of Arlberry , her father , and his name Murray . His age was seventy-five , but he did not look older than sixty , from having always been virtuous , temperate , and benevolent . Rose was more fascinated than ever with the manners and conversation of lady Elinor . She would not hint at the favour she had conferred ; and when she suspected that Rose wished to enter on the subject , avoided it with the greatest delicacy . Mr. Murray had been very fond of lady Elinor from a child , which affection she warmly returned , being grateful for his constant endeavours to add to her happiness when so young . Into her youthful mind he instilled the necessity of being beneficent ; and that by promoting the welfare of our fellowcreatures in distress , we increase our own felicity . The sentiments of him lady Elinor revered and loved as a second parent she naturally adopted , and became the same humane , good , and charitable character . To behold such virtue in a lovely young lady touches the heart even more than when we contemplate excellence in advanced age . At an early period of his life , Mr. Murray was in very narrow circumstances , from having had an extravagant father . In consequence of being thus situated , he established himself at Lisbon , as a wine - merchant , where , in a few years , he realised a handsome fortune . Mr. Richard Murray related many anecdotes to Rose , which gave her a very favourable impression of the Portuguese character . Mr. Richard Murray , at one time , when he was in business as a merchant , had considerable property , and much money owing to him ; but from having bills unexpectedly presented for payment , to the amount of five thousand pounds , he thought he must become a bankrupt , and was going to take refuge in a convent , where people in embarrassment in Portugal always fly . As he was walking on his way there , he met a Portuguese gentleman , with whom he often played at chess in the evening . You look melancholy today , signor Ricardo , said the gentleman , for he was called in Portugal Ricardo , from his Christian name being Richard . Mr. Richard Murray replied , that he was very dull , as he was going to a convent . But why go to a convent ? rejoined the Portuguese . Mr. Murray then related his situation , which moved the generous , feeling Portuguese , who instantly lent him money sufficient to extricate him from his difficulties ; and he became more flourishing than before . This made Mr. Richard Murray very partial to the natives of Portugal , of whom he recounted several instances of their ardour when they formed a friendship , which proved their warmth of heart . He gave away a large fortune among them in charity . Every week three hundred beggars assembled at his door on a certain day , and were relieved , beside many others to whom he allowed monthly pay . Mr. Richard Murray resided chiefly in Portugal , and only visited England occasionally , as he was now growing very old . He told Rose , that she resembled a young lady to whom he was ardently attached at twenty — That is the reason , Miss Douglas , added Mr. Murray , that I am an old bachelor . As you say I resemble the object of your early regard , replied Rose , may I , without being impertinent , ask how you came to be separated from her ? I discovered , after our attachment had taken place some months , that she was a Roman Catholic ; and , as I was a Protestant , I was averse to marrying any one of a different religion , as all my relations would have been indignant at my making such a choice , to which I felt repugnant myself . This prevented our union , as she would not change her religion . Thus was I doomed to be disappointed in love , for I could never attach myself to any other woman , though she was easily consoled , and married soon after . You are , young lady , the only person that ever resembled her in my opinion . I resided opposite to her father's house in Lisbon ; and at the beginning of our attachment , she would come into the balcony in the evening , in her walking-dress . I then appeared at my window , and that was the signal for our walking out together . But I hope , Miss Douglas , you will be more fortunate in love than my mistress and myself ; for I was informed she lived very miserably , and always wished she had been my wife . Probably , observed Rose , it is for the advantage of society that you have remained single . Had you been married , you would not have had so much time to devote to the unfortunate ; your attention would have been engaged with your wife and family . Rose said this , as she recollected hearing in company his name mentioned as one of the most beneficent of beings , who passed every day in searching out and relieving the wretched victims of misfortune . Mr. Richard Murray smiled , and told her she had never been in love , or she would not think any thing could compensate for the loss of the object of her attachment . Lady Elinor now informed Rose , that she was to remove the following morning from lady Morrington's to her father's house in Berkley-square , as the earl of Arlberry was expected in a few days in town . Her ladyship added , that she should be happy to see her frequently , and it would be very convenient , as they were at a short distance from each other . Lady Elinor and Mr. Murray soon after took leave , to the regret of Rose and her sister , as they were both amiable and agreeable . Lady Morrington had exerted every malignant power to prejudice lady Elinor against Rose Douglas , and prevent her from visiting in South Audley-street . Lady Elinor was mildness and sweet itself , with a fine understanding , and a great deal of penetration ; easily she perceived , therefore , that lady Morrington was of a very envious jealous disposition , and Miss Douglas and her sister too young and lovely to be really favourites . From several expressions her ladyship inadvertently repeated , she clearly betrayed that she had been only civil to these young ladies from supposing they would , and lately had , inherited a very large fortune . Lady Morrington's ill-natured satirical speeches inclined lady Elinor , who had a very firm strong mind , to think more highly of Rose , as she despised unprovoked malevolence , and was particularly captivated with her unaffected sense and softness . Lady Elinor admired the beautiful colour that tinted the cheek and animated the countenance of Miss Douglas . When she observed to lady Morrington how much she admired the blooming look of health that distinguished her , her ladyship exclaimed , in a splenetic tone — Nobody gives her credit for it ; most people say she is painted . This speech quite disgusted lady Elinor , who thought it so unkind and illiberal , that she determined to evince more attention for the young lady thus meanly slandered ; for to this untruth lady Morrington added another . She asserted that the conduct of Rose was incorrect , and that she flirted too much . — I do not say she has acted criminally , continued her ladyship , but imprudently — with too much levity . Lady Elinor's discernment soon discovered why she criticised her so unmercifully , and also calumniated the unoffending girl , evidently because she was prejudiced in her favour . She discerned the falsehood of her description , for Rose was cheerful , without any improper vivacity that borders on indiscretion . The character her ladyship had drawn of her would have been more applicable to Jane formerly , before misfortune had corrected her errors . Since her separation from Guildford , she was amazingly improved , and the alteration afforded her mother the most refined pleasure . Every letter Jane had received from colonel Guilford since they left Devonshire gave a satisfactory account of little Caroline , whom she was impatient to embrace , and anxious , for her sake , to return to Treharne . Rose sent to Piccadilly , to gain information of Mary's ( now lady Beaufort's ) residence , and received the intelligence of her being at Twickenham , with his lordship . Miss Douglas immediately addressed a letter to her , congratulating Mary on her marriage , which she imagined had prevented her from thinking of a friend truly attached to her , who would always feel the most sincere regard , if treated with still greater unkindness . Notwithstanding her engagements , Rose continued to say , that she was convinced she would be glad to hear she was released , by the goodness of an excellent friend , from her severe difficulties , which had caused her to suffer most cruelly . Though Rose forgave Mary for her unfeeling neglect , yet she could not help shedding tears as the reflection obtruded and pointed out the obduracy , ungentleness , and unfriendliness of her behaviour . While she was sealing this letter , which had occasioned very painful thoughts , Kamira entered the room — Me sorry interrupt you , but gentleman come , wish speak you directly . Who is it ? said Rose . Me do not know . Rose immediately went down , and found Eustace , who seemed rejoiced to behold her again — How could you say you did not know who it was , Kamira ? Gentleman told to me , You not tell ; it make good surprise for Miss Douglas : she please , and me not forgive you , you tell her . Rose could not help smiling at this account , as it appeared that Eustace flattered himself she would be uncommonly glad to see him . In the course of conversation , he disclosed to Miss Douglas and her sister that his affairs were arranged sooner than he expected , and that he had recovered a considerable sum of money owing to him , which had quite banished all his cares , and he felt much happier than when he left England . He mentioned that he had visited Treharne , where he obtained their address in town , and how much he was shocked at observing the destruction of that venerable building by the fire . Eustace expressed such infinite joy at seeing Rose , and evinced friendship so truly affectionate , that it was impossible to avoid being pleased with a conduct quite opposite to the behaviour she expected from him ; it convinced her that his temper was more faulty than his heart . The examples revealed to her , of the perfidy and ingratitude too prevalent , made her view with satisfaction and esteem a character apparently capable of gratitude , of which instances were very rare , although this virtue was strikingly illustrated in the disposition of the grateful and faithful Kamira . Rose considered Eustace as an addition to the number of her friends , and related to him the disagreeable circumstances attendant on the death of sir James Douglas , and that her father's claim to the estates was disputed . Eustace evidently sympathised in every sorrow that afflicted her , and intreated , if she wanted money at any time , that she would apply to him , as he had not forgotten her kindness , when severe adversity pressed heavily , and threatened his inevitable ruin . — Though I have been fortunate in many respects , continued Eustace , one event , exceedingly vexatious , has happened , which you will be concerned to hear . My old relation is dead , and not bequeathed me a shilling , after all his repeated promises . Is it not aggravating , when he buoyed up my hopes for a number of years ? Perhaps if you had inherited all the wealth he possessed , you would not have been so happy as you are now . You appear gay and cheerful ; and if you had received great riches , great cares would have attended them , and instead of being lively , your anxiety would be increased , from solicitude respecting this long-expected fortune . Eustace laughed — Your philosophical observations are very good , but I confess I should prefer having plenty of money ; I cannot acquiesce with your opinion on that subject . As they were conversing , Mrs. Linn was introduced by Kamira . She was a goodnatured vulgar woman , and said to Rose — You had a letter from Scotland , I understand , this morning , Miss Douglas , saying your papa was much better , and out of danger , which I be very glad to hear . Now , Miss , as this is the case , I should be vastly glad if you would come to the play with me ; and your sister would like to go , I think . At this moment Jane entered , and Mrs. Linn told her , she had just received eight tickets for the pit at Coventgarden , and hoped she would persuade her sister to go there . — It will divert you both a little , I think , said Mrs. Linn , after all the trouble you have been in . It is a deep tragedy , which I like better than comedy , called Manymé the Orphan , or the Unhappy Marriage . Thank God! I know nothing about unhappy marriages , for a better husband than mine never trod the blessed earth . Howsoever , it is very moving . Do let us accompany Mrs. Linn , exclaimed Jane to her sister : it will be really entertaining ; and we ought to oblige Mrs. Linn , who has been so kind and attentive to us . I am sure I shall take it as a great honour , replied Mrs. Linn . We shall be a snug genteel party . Count Kenyosky ( the nobleman who lodged with her ) , Mrs. Duncan , who is quite the lady , are to be with us ; a cousin of mine from the country ; and I shall be vastly happy if this gentleman will accept a ticket , meaning Eustace , if he likes to go . Eustace thanked her , and said he should be happy to attend them . Rose would not decline this invitation , as her sister was disposed to accept it , yet reluctantly consented , from never having been in the pit before . To this situation in the theatre she had formed an aversion , from the apprehension of having any thing thrown from the galleries on her head , and likewise fearful of being discovered by her fashionable acquaintance , who were disposed to be satirical and ill-natured . When Mrs. Linn quit the drawing - room , much pleased with the success of her embassy , Eustace observed — We shall have excellent diversion , as such a motley group will seldom be seen assembled together . Very true , replied Rose , but if I refused going , as I am under obligations to them , they would think me proud and ungrateful , and I would rather suffer still greater mortification , than appear to be haughty and deficient in gratitude . Count Kenyosky was a fat good-humoured-looking man , but inelegant in his appearance ; and the sisters had often remarked to each other , that no one would suppose he was a nobleman . Mrs. Duncan was the wife of an officer of high rank in the army , who was gone abroad . Mr. Linn had been employed many years by colonel Duncan ; and as he knew that his wife and himself were respectable worthy people , though vulgar , he had placed Mrs. Duncan to board in a family they were acquainted with . The colonel engaged Mr. and Mrs. Linn to observe that Mrs. Duncan was taken proper care of , as she was a Spanish lady , and had no acquaintance in England . It was not his wish that she should form any connexions till he returned from abroad , but live in retirement , as his Scotch relations were displeased at his having married a foreigner , and a Roman Catholic . Mrs. Linn detailed all this information to Miss Douglas before she was introduced to the lady , who spoke English exceedingly well . Her complexion was very dark — her manners extremely pleasing , and she had a melancholy air which interested Rose , as she attributed it to grief at being separated from her husband . Mrs. Linn's country cousin was a good - looking young man , who appeared simplicity itself . His dialect was very provincial , but he seemed an amiable beneficent creature . When the party entered the pit , it was quite early , and the performance did not commence for a long time afterwards . The country cousin placed himself on one side of Rose , and Eustace on the other . Do but look , Miss Douglas , said the former , at that young man , and two young women with him . They appear as if they only came here to stuff their maw . Rose directed her eyes to them , and perceived that all three were eating almonds and raisins , apples , oranges , and cakes , as if for a wager . The young man was placed between the females , who tittered , and seemed highly diverted when he poured some liquid out of a bottle for them to drink . One of the young women had a large white face , bloated with good-living , and looked so inanimate and greedy , that it was really a portrait of heavy gluttony . It makes me sick to look at that white - faced young woman , said the simple cousin ; her face is like a piece of dough . It astonishes me that the young man can be so civil to her , for he seems to be a sweetheart . To be sure , there is no accounting for liking , but I could not fancy such a stupid gormandising thing . Rose smiled , and could not but approve the aversion he expressed . Near this group was seated a handsome gentlemanly man , with a morose countenance , and by his side a pretty Frenchwoman , evidently his wife . He seemed very discontented because they waited a long time before the play began . I am quite tyred of staying here , he growled out , in a peevish surly tone . If the performance does not begin soon , I shall leave the theatre . Patience , patience ! replied the sweet Frenchwoman , in a soft harmonious voice , which , contrasted with the harsh tones and fretful manner of her husband , quite entertained Rose . Miss Douglas now looked round the house , and gazed at an old lady , dressed very gaudily , in one of the lower boxes . The poor old lady had been afflicted with the palsy , and her head shook so much , that every eye was directed at her . Rose was concerned at her want of understanding in making herself a public show , as she attracted the notice of all the spectators . She regretted that the old lady did not seek more rational and retired amusement . This evening seemed destined for elderly ladies to make themselves quite gazing - stocks . Another , about the same age as the former , being exceedingly deaf , had a speaking-trumpet of an uncommon length , which looked very ridiculous , hanging over the side of the box . The part of Monimia was inimitably well performed ; and during one very affecting scene , Rose could not help crying . Mrs. Linn perceived her emotion , and called out to her — Come , come , Miss ! what nonsense is this , crying for a sham ! Now , Miss , I thought you had more sense , and would not be so foolish as to cry for a sham — No , no , indeed . This ridiculous speech quite dried up her tears , and its absurdity inclined her rather to laugh than weep . When the play was nearly finished , Rose discovered lady Elinor in one of the private boxes with lady Morrington and sir Henry Arundel . Sir Henry she thought looked very dull , though her ladyship was talking to him with apparent energy , and another gentleman to lady Elinor . The entertainment now took place ; and just before it began , a blind man was led in . Only think how odd it is , Miss ! said Mrs. Linn ; here is a blind man come to see the play ! To hear the music , undoubtedly , replied Rose , as it is a musical entertainment . The eccentricity of her companions quite diverted her , and the singularity of the country cousin more particularly than the others . A fashionable fop , in the upper boxes , dressed in the extreme of fashion , made a very ludicrous appearance , as most men do who are attired to the highest degree of foppery . You do not dress in such a coxcomical style in the country ? said Rose to the cousin . O no , Miss Douglas ; it would not do to dress in that manner with our country way of speaking ; it will not suit , and be quite out of character . Rose thought this observation truly sensible ; and as Eustace was obliged to quit the theatre before the entertainment was quite finished , the cousin offered her his arm . As she proceeded with him and the rest of the party to South Audley-street , he informed her that he was come to town to consult a physician respecting his health , and had been with one that morning , who was allowed to be very skilful . You surprise me , rejoined Rose , as you appear the picture of health . You can't judge by appearances , Miss ; they are very deceiving . Certainly mine is an odd sort of a complaint — it is being always hungry , and having constantly a craving for food . The doctor asked me how many meals I ate every day ? and I told him , when I got up in the morning , I had a quart-bason of milk and bread ; at breakfast , two rounds of hot buttered toast , and tea ; bread and cheese for my lunch ; and at dinner , at least a pound and a half of solid meat , with vegetables , and half of the pudding , to which I helped myself . The physician said to me — But if you take half the pudding , as you are a large family , what is there left for the others but scanty fare ? — I replied , that the rest did not mind pudding much . — That is lucky for you , added the doctor : but tell me , do you take any refreshment between dinner and tea ? — O yes , sir , I rejoined ; I could not wait all that time without food ; and at tea I make nothing of two thick rounds from the quartern loaf , either of bread and butter or toast , no matter which , for I am not dainty . At supper I partake heartily of cold meat and bread and cheese : yet , after all this , says I to the physician , I am hungry if I wake in the middle of the night , and that is the reason I waited upon you , to crave your advice , as some people say I have a wolf in my stomach ; and others , that they would rather keep me a day than a month , which is very cutting . When I had finished speaking , he kept on laughing . — La , sir , said I , how droll it is to see you laughing so ! it makes me laugh too . You'll excuse me , I hope , as I have been brought up in this country way , and don't know any better ; therefore , pray make an allowance for me . It was so comical to see us both laughing ! but the doctor was the best tempered man I ever did know , and told me I must not eat milk in the morning , but keep a hard biscuit in my pocket , which I was to be constantly eating , and that he doubted not , if I observed this advice , that I shall soon be better , for it is very disagreeable to feel continually as if one was starved . Rose smiled all the time he was giving her this curious account , and was not surprised at the physician's risibility being excited . Miss Douglas and her sister wished all the party good-night , when they arrived at home , and retired to the drawing - room , where Mrs. Linn soon joined them , to inform Rose and Jane that her cousin was a most respectable young man , though countrified , as she styled him . She described him as the man without guile , and truly good and benevolent . Of children he was excessively fond , and never so happy as when enjoying their innocent society . To the poor people in the neighbourhood where he resided , he was most beneficent , and almost daily carried a basket filled with useful presents for the indigent rustics and their children . Rose assured Mrs. Linn that she felt much obliged for having been introduced to such an amiable character . Beneficence thus pure in a young man was rare and estimable . The next morning Rose and Jane , before they walked in the Park , entered Mrs. Linn's parlour , to enquire after her health , but were going to retreat when they perceived she was conversing with two strange gentlemen . Don't run away , ladies — I insist upon it you do not ! exclaimed this goodnatured vulgar woman ; I have no secrets . One of these gentlemen is settling about boarding with me , as our Jarman count talks of leaving soon for Jarmany . Come , sit down , ladies ; I shall be vexed if you don't . Rose and Jane complied , and had leisure , while the younger of the gentlemen was speaking to Mrs. Linn , to look at them both . The elder of the gentlemen was apparently about forty , and the other , a dashing-looking young man , appeared to be six-and-twenty . — I hope , said he to Mrs. Linn , that your husband is not infirm , as I should not like to board with any one who was so . I must also inform you , that I expected every day to have an original dinner . I don't know what you mean , sir , by an original dinner . Then , madam , I will explain it — I mean something dressed fresh and hot every day . My friend , said the elderly man , paid three hundred a-year at the boarding-house where he resided last , and I think he ought to have been well treated for that sum , which is not commonly given . So I think , sir , replied Mrs. Linn ; it is a very handsome price , and you may be sure , if he pays it me , he shall have fish , flesh , and fowl too , hot every day . I was quite disgusted with a boarding-house , said the dashing young man ; for that reason I intend to board in a private family . You would hardly believe it , madam , but we had daily hachis , or grillé , till I was quite tyred of it — never an original meal . Sunday was the only flash dinner , and then , unfortunately , I always dined out . I never heard of hashee and grillee before , sir , ejaculated Mrs. Linn ; I suppose they be some newfangled dishes . I don't know how much of your fashionable victuals , though I can dress cutlets mantenong way as well as any body ; and for good boiled and roast , nobody , I'll be bold to say , can dress a dinner better . As for pastry and puddings , I have them at my fingers ' ends ; and if you should be poorly at any time , I can make you a good drop of broth or gruel with any one , let them be who they will . I doubt not , madam , being very comfortable under your protection and roof , yet I cannot give a decisive answer at present . I have several other places to visit ; but rely on hearing from me tomorrow . Good-morning , madam — good morning , ladies ! and with a graceful bow he quit the parlour , followed by his companion . When the street-door closed on them , Mrs. Linn said , in a doleful voice — I believe I have been throwing away my time in listening to these fellows , who , I think , on second thoughts , are a couple of swindlers , going about making fools of people they are not likely to cheat . If I don't hear from them tomorrow , I shall set them down for what I have said . Three hundredy a-year indeed ! a likely storey ! — few people would give so extravagant a price , with his hashee and his grillee ; for all he is decked out so smart , and talks of his fine dishes , I dare say his belly is pretty empty — he looks as lank as a greyhound , and would be glad of a good mutton-hash , such as I make , with mushroom catsup . I am of the same opinion , Mrs. Linn , as yourself , replied Rose , respecting their being swindlers ; but confess I have been highly diverted with the dasher's original dinners ; there is something quite new in the expression . Jane acknowledged that she had been equally entertained . I dare to say , exclaimed Mrs. Linn , that if I had been a lone woman , they would have thought to take me in : but they should have seen they had the wrong sow by the ear , if I had not been married . The sisters now quit Mrs. Linn ; and when they came back from their accustomed walk in Hyde-park , found an order from the colonel of the regiment to which Felix belonged , commanding him to join his battalion immediately . It was going to be stationed at Edinburgh ; and Rose felt a consolation , since he was obliged to leave them , at the prospect of his residing near their parents . The colonel observed , very politely , that it was impossible , in the present position of affairs , to grant him any additional leave of absence , though , period , he would intion . Rose instantly foretter to Richmond , and Felix her in a few hours . H how much did Rose rejoice at having c oncealed the adventure with the linendraper from him , and that the painful circumstance had happened when he was absent ! The knowledge of such an event befalling his dear sister Rose would have made his susceptible and affectionate mind quite miserable ; it would have induced him to apply then to his father , who might have been inconvenienced to obtain this sum , in addition to his other expenses . Her grateful heart glowed with warmest gratitude to that sweet benevolent creature , lady Elinor , whom she valued as her guardian angel ; goodness , thus exquisite and rare , had saved her from excess of misery , and shielded her from being exposed to repeated insults from Courtenay , who would ungenerously , she feared , have taken advantage of her forlorn and unprotected situation . Rose was mentally reflecting with pleasure on the perfections that adorned lady Elinor's character , when the object of her contemplation called to see her . Her ladyship was introduced to Felix , who attended them soon after to a fashionable auction , as he was allowed three days ' indulgence , to have his new clothes made , and procure several military articles that he required . Here they met lady Beaufort , who pretended to be very happy to meet her , which Rose , from the attachment she had ever entertained for her , too weakly and readily credited . When they quit the auction-room , lady Elinor observed — There is something in lady Beaufort's countenance that does not please me — it is inanimate and malevolent ; and I have heard her make the most spiteful remarks on you , though I understand she professes to be your intimate friend , which gave me a vile opinion of her , since I have known you speak in the highest terms of her . I cannot therefore admire your discernment in the choice of a friend . Did you never observe how intolerably vain she is ? I loved her so sincerely , that I could not discover any fault in her disposition . Yet she judges me guilty of the greatest crime — a crime which the world in general never pardons . What is it ? replied lady Elinor . Poverty , rejoined Rose , smiling — an offence that is not to be forgiven by worldly characters . If they find you justly chargeable with this crime , they give you credit for every vice and failing . Felix and lady Elinor were amused with this assertion , and acknowledged its usual correctness . They set Felix down at his hatter's , and proceeded to South Audley-street , where lady Elinor left her . Jane did not accompany them , from being engaged in writing a long letter to colonel Guilford , to make amends for having neglected to answer his last epistle . Rose had just divested herself of her bonnet and pelisse , when Kamira summoned her to sir Henry Arundel . His visit was to Felix , and on being informed he was out on military business , he asked for the ladies . Jane said she would join them when she had finished her letter , and Rose was compelled to attend sir Henry . His countenance brightened with inward satisfaction at meeting with her alone , an opportunity which he had long sighed for , but never before obtained , as he had an aversion to disclosing his sentiments in writing . By personally avowing his passion , he imagined it more easy to discern if his suit was acceptable to the object of his enamoured fancy . With a perturbation of mind that raised him in her esteem , as it convinced Rose of the truth of his regard , sir Henry unequivocally and candidly declared the long attachment that had been concealed in his bosom for her , who was the only woman that had ever made an impression on his heart . It deeply wounded Rose to decline the addresses , and inflict pain on the mind of so amiable and accomplished a man , who honoured her by his selection and offer of his hand , in preference to many other females who were solicitous to attract his attention ; but the recollection of her loved Delavalle , and the genuine affection she felt for him alone , that neither time , absence , nor any event , could lessen , influenced her to decisively , though in the mildest and most delicate manner , reject his addresses . Sir Henry betrayed an emotion at her refusal , that she had never before witnessed , and was affected so vehemently , that he even shed tears . The tender heart of Rose could not behold unmoved such exquisite sensibility and ardent regard ; it made her quite miserable ; and in a voice hardly articulate and intelligible , from suppressed internal agitation and grief , she assured sir Henry , that had her affection not been previously engaged , before his declaration of esteem , there was no man who would have preferred to him , or whose love would have flattered her more . This prior engagement , she hoped , would be a sufficient apology to him , who was so honourable himself , for her declining to give him any encouragement . A confession thus kind and gentle softened , in a slight degree , the severe pangs his disappointment and her rejection had caused . At this interesting moment Jane entered , and guessed what had passed , from the expression of melancholy in sir Henry's countenance , and the serious air Rose wore . To revive their spirits , she said a number of ridiculous things , and succeeded in restoring their composure . When sir Henry was going , Rose held out her hand to him . He respectfully took it , and said , dejectedly — Since I have lost the cherished hope of acquiring the title of your lover , which has for a tedious interval been my highest ambition , allow me the appellation that I value next to it , the name of your friend . A true and faithful one , if I am permitted that honour , you will find me for life . Rose thanked him , and replied , with unfeigned sincerity , that she should feel truly gratified to rank him among the number of her friends , for whom she already had the highest esteem , the most lasting foundation for friendship . When he was gone , Rose exclaimed , with a sigh — How ardently do I wish for my best beloved's return , for I am unhappy at being subjected to proposals of marriage when I am engaged ! It astonishes me that any woman can like to be a coquette , and take a pleasure in the uneasiness of those who adore her , and whose affection she has gained by a false appearance of tenderness she does not feel . I wish I was married , and I should then be protected from a repetition of similar unpleasant scenes . Courtenay has given me a distaste to professions of love — it is only from my Delavalle's lips that I wish to hear that endearing word pronounced . Before Rose had quite finished speaking , the count dae Fontenai was announced . Since they had met him at lady Morrington's , he had frequently visited them , and was so assiduous and attentive to Jane , that it inspired Rose with the expectation that it would end in a mutual attachment , and that she would enjoy the felicity of seeing her happily united to a man who really loved her , and that her parents would approve . Dae Fontenai requested to be allowed to attend them to an exhibition of paintings in the neighbourhood . Solicitous to oblige the count , from the hope of seeing him happily married to Jane , Rose instantly complied , and persuaded her sister to accept this invitation . When they entered the exhibition-room , the first object their eyes encountered was Mrs. Pryce , leaning on an elegant-looking man's arm , and waddling about from one picture to the other . Jane turned very pale at the sight of her bitter enemy , the corrupt source of her greatest errors , who had instigated Guilford to plot her ruin , and by her vulgar barbarity reduced her to the verge of the grave . She trembled so excessively , that it obliged her to hold Dae Fontenai is arm more firmly , and she moved on with him and her sister , almost unconscious where she was . That she might not be recognised by her was her utmost wish , and she hoped it , as the room was very full of company . Doomed , however , to disappointment , at the moment when Jane thought she had escaped , and she was going away , Mrs. Pryce turned back , saying — Let us have another look , and rather rolling than walking , advanced again to the top of the room , opposite to where Dae Fontenai and his fair companions were standing . No sooner did this malicious woman glance her eye on the party , than she instantly knew them , and with all the malice inherent in her wicked disposition , inelegantly bawled out — How do you do , Mrs. Guilford ? and boldly approached Jane . How is your child ? she malignantly continued ; well , I hope ? You look better than you did before your confinement — quite like a single Miss . Rose was now as white as her sister , who sunk insensible into Dae Fontenai is arms , that eagerly supported her . What affectation ? cried Mrs. Pryce ; fine airs indeed ! not very becoming in Guilford's mistress ! The natural gentleness of Rose yielded to the resentment she felt at the author of her sister's indiscretion daring to publicly and brutally insult her , and she exclaimed , with great spirit — Begone , woman ! you have no right to insult my sister — you who have been the cause of all the affliction that has overwhelmed her ! Your sex is disgraced by your infamous unfeeling conduct . Femme barbare ! monstre ! ejaculated the count , in an indignant tone ; if you presume to address these young ladies with any additional impertinence and insolence , I shall forget your sex , and chastise you as you merit . The gentleman your protector shall not prevent your receiving the chastisement your barbarity deserves . High words now ensued between the count and Mrs. Pryce's companion , as Dae Fontenai had silenced her . They exchanged cards , and the count was evidently anxious to remove Jane from this situation , that attracted every eye towards them , as his lovely burden continued senseless . A man belonging to the exhibition procured a hackney-coach , in which they placed Jane , who was beginning to recover from her swoon , and had quite regained her senses when they reached home . Though restored to animation , Jane felt so ill and dejected , that Rose advised her being undressed and put to bed . In the meanwhile Dae Fontenai expressed an anxiety respecting her sister , that prepossessed Rose exceedingly , and made her judge that his heart was feeling ; and his spirited behaviour in defence of Jane heightened her good opinion . He would not quit the house till informed of her recovery , and that she had sunk into a calm slumber . The count came early the following morning , to enquire after the health of Miss Jane Douglas , who was not up , being very ill and feverish . Rose conjectured , from appearances , that Dae Fontenai entertained a real attachment for her sister ; she concluded , therefore , that if his love was as ardent as she supposed , it would not be lessened if she imparted the cruel deception practised by Mrs. Pryce and colonel Guilford on her innocent inexperienced sister , of whose ignorance of the world they had basely taken advantage . Miss Douglas reflected , that if she did not relate the truth , the count might form conjectures more disadvantageous to Jane than the reality . Imprudence alone could be attributed to her in this unfortunate affair , for there was not the least criminality attached to her ; and no man truly enamoured could object to marrying her because she had been the victim of deceit . In answer to some question Dae Fontenai put to her , relative to their acquaintance with Mrs. Pryce , Rose replied , that if he would promise not to betray the confidence she was inclined to repose , from a high opinion of his honour , she would develop , without reserve , every circumstance relating to Jane that at present appeared mysterious . The count assured her that she might rely on the trust being sacred , and that he would sooner part with life than disclose any event she condescended to confide . In consequence of these protestations of secrecy , Rose related the circumstances relative to their first acquaintance with Mrs. Pryce , her subsequent artifices to persuade Jane to visit her unknown to her family , her introduction of colonel Guilford , and , owing to her persuasion and manœuvres , the fatal termination of this connexion in a pretended marriage with the colonel . Rose likewise related the cruel insults of Mrs. Pryce , when Jane was placed in a situation that would have melted any heart less obdurate than that brutal woman's . Dae Fontenai was much affected with this interesting narration , and did not ascribe the least blame to her sister , which was very pleasing to Rose , as it gave a prospect of his intentions being honourable . If his attachment was firm and sincere , it would not be weakened by the recollection of her thoughtless imprudence , which had enabled the artful Mrs. Pryce and designing Guilford to effect her ruin . The favourable expectations of Rose were increased when Dae Fontenai assured her that he had the highest esteem , admiration , and pity , for Miss Jane , that her narrative had increased . I flatter myself , he exclaimed , when they separated , that I shall , at some happy period , have it in my power to call you by the affectionate name of sister , as I have lately hoped that my attentions were not displeasing . May I therefore solicit an interview with Miss Jane , as soon as her health will allow her to receive me ? Rose replied , that he might depend on every exertion on her part to persuade her sister to give him an early meeting ; and when the count left her , her spirits were quite elevated . His last speech clearly insinuated , that his love was such as would reflect honour on the object of his regard . This hope quite soothed the mind of Rose , whose highest ambition was to see Jane well and happily married . In this respectable station , she knew that she would be protected from the insults of Mrs. Pryce , whose malignant perseverance in grossly affronting her was uncommon ( notwithstanding malevolence is too predominant ) , as Jane never molested or offended her , though she had proved the cause of her destruction . Jane was quite recovered the next day , and when the count waited on Miss Douglas , he had the satisfaction of seeing the sisters together . Rose had imparted to her sister the conversation that passed between her and Dae Fontenai , and in a few minutes left Jane alone with him . Felix was out , and did not return till late at night , being wholly engaged with his military affairs . The count remained two hours with Jane , uninterrupted by Rose , who was delighted at perceiving her sister in high spirits , as it convinced her their conversation had been satisfactory ; and she warmly participated in the felicity that had long been a stranger to the bosom of Jane Douglas . It was indeed very proper that poor Rose should enjoy a gleam of happiness , as the exquisite feelings of her mind were doomed to be continually lacerated . The moment now arrived when she was to part with a brother , the best and most affectionate of human beings . In every situation of life in which he was engaged , he had conducted himself with integrity , courage , and propriety , and his family were honoured by the superiority of his character . His affection and friendship was a sweet and soothing balm to Rose , and supported her resolution in the most trying scenes . She could never endure the thoughts of disgracing him by acting unworthily . Had her inclination for virtue been weak , her attachment to him would have been an excitement to it , that her sister's conduct might be a credit to him . His sensibility resembled hers , though he sustained the wounds of misfortune with manly energy . Rose , who knew the acuteness of his feelings , always concealed ( when she conveniently could ) every event that would hurt them . By Felix she sent an affectionate letter to her parents , requesting to hear from them , as it appeared a long time since her mother had written , whom she congratulated on her father's recovery . Jane liked her brother , who had an indulgence for her failings , that few brothers would have had ; yet she did not feel that enthusiastic regard that Rose felt for every object of her ardent attachment . Though much improved in her manners , her disposition still remained selfish , and she only poignantly felt for her own sufferings , and any event connected with her passions and happiness . Her child she loved , and was interested in its welfare — it was a part of herself ; but to the infant of any other person , however nearly related , she would have been quite indifferent . Her affection for her sister was governed by the same motive ; she was useful to her , and shielded her from many sorrows that would have pressed more heavily had she not shared them , and lightened her cares by her advice and participation in every thing that afflicted her . But had Jane never erred , she would not have known the value of her sisterly tenderness , and despised it ; nor would she have made that allowance for the faults of Rose , if she had been indiscreet , that her sister did for her , but viewed her errors with severity . Never , indeed , were two characters more opposite ; for the compassionate heart of Rose was moved with pity for the afflictions even of a stranger , and her tears fell at the recital of their woes , as the soft summer-shower that bathes the sweetbriar's scented leaves , and exhales its fragrance . Chapter V If petty evils round you swarm , Let not their buz your temper warm , But brush them from your mind away , Like insects of a summer's day . If spite and malice are your foes , If fell revenge its arrows throws , Look calmly on , nor fear the dart ; Virtue will guard the honest heart . Tour of Dr. Syntax . Dae Fontenai came to South Audley-street about half-an-hour after Felix had quit his sisters . Jane received him , for Rose remained in her apartment , unhappy and melancholy at parting from her brother . Her separation from him revived the recollection of the anguish she had suffered , when her loved sir Eglamour was torn from her . The affection and friendship Felix cherished for her lover endeared him still more to her affectionate heart . Rose continued alone the greater part of the day , and when her sister and herself met in the evening , had the satisfaction of hearing that the count had been with her several hours . The pleasure he apparently took in the society of Jane convinced her that the fancy he had taken to her sister was now grown into a real and lasting passion , frequent intercourse having heightened his regard . Jane informed her that his expressions of attachment seemed as sincere as they were ardent ; and Rose , smiling , told her that she expected soon to address her as the countess dae Fontenai , and that she thought it a very pretty sounding title . As Rose was speaking , Kamira entered with a note from lady Beaufort . It was worded with those affectionate sentiments that had first gained her the affection of Rose , and though she now doubted her sincerity , she could not resist being pleased . Her ladyship requested she would add to her happiness by passing the following day with her , as lord Beaufort was gone out of town , and the satisfaction of enjoying each other's society and conversation would not be interrupted by a third person . Rose hesitated whether she should accept her invitation or not , after her cruel neglect ; but regard conquered resentment , and this overture from lady Beaufort appeared as if she repented her unkindness , and wished to atone for it . Jane endeavoured to persuade her to decline going , after the meanness Mary had displayed , but Rose would not listen to her , though she added , that she only sent for her because she had not one equally agreeable to pass away a dull day with , and merely wished to make ill-natured remarks upon her . Lady Beaufort has apologised for her behaviour , by inviting and writing me a kind note ; therefore I cannot be so unyielding to her I still love . Few characters are without a blemish , and I hope she will be as indulgent to my errors as I am to hers . Rose said this as she left Jane , to visit Mary , who had intreated her to come early . Lady Beaufort met her with a smiling look , as if the sight of Rose had enlivened her spirits . Rose enjoyed a happy day , as lady Beaufort could , when she pleased , become the most fascinating agreeable companion . She was perfect mistress of those little agremens that engage the heart much more than attentions of greater importance . Whenever Rose had dined with her , Mary always ordered , as she did now , whatever she had observed Rose preferred , or had heard her mention that she liked . The sweetness and kindness of her manners were so captivating , and her professions of future service apparently really sincere , that Rose , with weak credulity , believed her , and every unfavourable impression vanished . She recollected Mary's refusal when she asked the favour of the loan of fifteen pounds , which Rose now attributed to the enormous expense she had incurred for jewels and wedding-clothes . It was not exactly the conduct she would have adopted on such an occasion , but she remembered , in extenuation of Mary , there she had acted as the generality of mankind would have done , who do not like to make sacrifices even for their dearest friend . Lady Elinor would have pursued a very different line of conduct , but few who resembled her in sweetness and superior excellence existed . Mary was dear to her , but she could not esteem her as she did her fair preserver , lady Elinor , whom she admired , respected , and idolised . On returning home , as it was late , she was informed by Kamira that Jane had retired to rest , being a little indisposed — that Eustace had left his card , and Dae Fontenai made ( as usual ) a very long visit . Pleased with the occurrences and news of the day , Rose sought their apartment , where she found her sister fast asleep , and was careful not to disturb her . She had learnt from lady Beaufort , whose lord had several relations in the army , that the troops were soon to return from Holland , and that sir Eglamour Delavalle had escaped the dangers of the last battle . This soothing intelligence inspired the consoling idea that all their affairs would wear a favourable aspect ; and with these agreeable thoughts occupying her mind , sleep quickly sealed her eyelids , and her slumbers were calm and refreshing . At the usual hour Rose Douglas awoke , revived and cheerful , as the restoration of Mary , in some degree , to her good opinion , animated her mind . She was naturally so gentle and affectionate , that it was painful for her to think harshly of any one she had valued . Jane had left the room , but that was customary since her separation from Guilford , that had prevented her sleeping so much as formerly , as she was frequently restless , from disagreeable thoughts and cruel reflections that obtruded , and banished her morning repose . Rose wished she had risen less early , as she was impatient to impart lady Beaufort's kindness and winning attention . She dressed hastily , and on going to arrange her glossy ringlets before the looking-glass , perceived a letter on the dressing-table , directed to her . The address was in a handwriting she did not know , and she smiled at the idea of having slept so soundly that she did not hear Kamira enter , and place it there , as it was not on the toilet at night , when she undressed . But when Rose opened this unwelcome letter , consternation and misery inexpressible saddened her mind , where cheerfulness and serenity were inmates till she perused its depressing contents . Alas ! it was from the weak , giddy , and inconsiderate Jane , who had already caused her the most bitter sorrow . After a very affectionate beginning , she informed Rose she had withdrawn from their residence , to place herself under the protection of the count dae Fontenai , who had liberally made a very handsome settlement on her . Jane observed that she was tempted to accept this offer , as she beheld no other prospect but that of meagre poverty staring them in the face , and expected , if the lawsuit terminated unfavourably , which they had every reason to fear , that they would all be totally ruined . To be poor she could not support , and listened , in consequence , to the count's arguments in favour of the step she had taken , which she would not weary her now by repeating . His persuasions were inforced by his suggesting that she could never hope to be married after the indiscretion she had committed ; it would , he said , prevent a man of delicacy from thinking of her in an honourable light . She considered it , therefore , as the wisest plan to follow his advice , being likewise influenced by his promise of allowing her child to be with her — a felicity she could not otherwise hope to taste while she remained unmarried . Jane added , that she reflected , even if she did , her husband would probably dislike the sight of Caroline , if he knew it was the offspring of another lover , and would constantly remind him of her former imprudence . An additional inducement for placing herself under the same roof with the count dae Fontenai , was his solemn promise never to forsake her ; and if she proved faithful , and her conduct was such as he wished , he would then marry her . Jane concluded her letter with requesting Rose to visit her privately , as she was anxious to see her , and would never forget her sisterly kindness , which she remembered with affection , and desired her acceptance of a ten-pound note which she enclosed . Before Rose finished perusing this letter , she was overcome with a sensation that almost choked her . Her sister that she tenderly loved , and for whom she had suffered so much , was now lost and abandoned , she feared for ever . It wounded her to the soul that Jane should imagine for a moment that she would receive the money she had by guilt and indiscretion obtained . The temptation was strong , as Rose was then distressed for money , having been at great expense on account of her dear Felix , from whom she concealed the reduced state of their finances , as she hoped and expected to receive a remittance from her father : yet she remained firm in her resolution of restoring the ten pounds to her sister . Rose now touched the bell for Kamira , and when the faithful creature entered , threw her arms around her neck , and , almost in a state of distraction , wept aloud on her bosom . Though the Indian was ignorant why her tears flowed , she mingled hers with the drops of sensibility that bathed the pallid face of her beloved Miss Rose . When the heart-rending emotion that agitated Miss Douglas had a little subsided , she confided to Kamira the anguish that Jane had planted in her bosom . — Now , she exclaimed , all hope of reclaiming her is destroyed ! To relapse a second time from virtue banishes every idea and expectation of repentance and reformation . Kamira was deeply affected with poignant grief at this recital . Morality and religion had been forcibly and impressively inculcated on her flexible mind by Mrs. Douglas , which was strengthened by observing the amiable and excellent conduct of the gentle Rose . The Indian was likewise naturally well inclined and good , and one of the most virtuous characters that ever breathed . Her virtue had frequently been attacked by vicious characters , but Kamira always continued steadily chaste and correct . Losquillo , her loved husband , was the only man for whom she had felt attachment , and , torn from him by the treachery of the perfidious Robecka , to his memory her constant heart remained ever faithful . Though many years had revolved since the young ladies discovered her in the wood , she looked nearly as young as she then appeared . Her brown complexion did not fade and lose its lustre , as a fairer skin frequently does ; and her dark , expressive , open countenance , was universally admired . Had Rose nourished the least expectation of her sister's return to rectitude , she would have been less miserable ; but that fond hope it was impossible to cherish , since she had coldly and deliberately resigned herself to the count , whose treachery in persuading her to act thus , after insinuating his designs were honourable , inspired her with resentment and detestation . The feeble and improbable prospect he had held out to her of marriage at a future period , after the sufferings she had endured from the duplicity of Guilford , made her fear she was indeed incorrigible . For her elopement with the colonel a reasonable excuse might be made , as she was cruelly deceived by a fictitious marriage , and a first error should always be pardoned ; contrition and improvement may then be hoped : but when that fault is repeated , attended with circumstances still more unpardonable , it is seldom that the erring mind reforms . Deluded , ill-advised Jane ! said Rose in a mournful voice , I am now again deprived of your society that I valued — that cheered me lately when calamity oppressed . Cruel girl ! to deceive me , and injure yourself , when you well knew I only encouraged Dae Fontenai because I thought it was for your advantage ! I firmly believed his designs were honourable , and could not have imagined , after the misery you had experienced , that you would have listened to dishonourable proposals , or that he would have dared to even hint at any . Me know you wish good your sister , and she marry count you think she rich , she happy ; but me beg you no make you own self ill , by fret for Miss Jane ; she wild , she fly away like the birds , first here , then there ; she always do something make you cry ; and take colour from your face . You no more can save her . You great deal to think of for your own good . Me wish you wipe your tears off — cry no more . Oh me pray to the great good God , that your dear lover come from over the seas ; he marry , he comfort you , and you not cry for Miss Jane ; she not love you , she no care ; she love you she not go away , leave you break your poor heart . O , she none care only for she self . Me love her , me sorry her go , but me no wish see you let tears fall , for her not think of you . Me beg you come eat breakfast ; you sick else . What general , what madame say , what good daughter sick in bed ? — good Miss Rose gone ! Rose heaved a deep sigh . — I wish to write my sister first , and enclose the note she sent . No , no , said Kamira , whose anxiety for her health made her angry ; me scold you you no eat breakfast , or try to eat a little ; first you eat something , then write ; Kamira take letter for you after . Such tender affection , such anxious care , were irresistible ; and leaning on her faithful Indian's arm , Rose went to the drawing-room , where breakfast had been already prepared for her and Jane . Rose drank some tea , but the bread and butter remained untouched , though she endeavoured to swallow a few mouthfuls , that Kamira might not be grieved . The Indian endeavoured to tempt her appetite by every method her affectionate heart could devise , but in vain , and was quite melancholy at her want of success . Kamira observed that Miss Jane must have stolen softly out at the street-door , before any one was up in the house , very early , as her departure was unperceived by any person . All her clothes , except those she wore , were left behind , as she mentioned in the postscript of her letter that they were useless to her , Dae Fontenai having purchased numerous articles of dress in the newest and most elegant style ; and to his love she was likewise indebted for very superb jewels . The Indian removed the tea-equipage , and left Miss Douglas to compose her letter . The paper was blotted with her tears in many places , and she commenced her writing by saying , that since Jane had assured her she was fixed in her resolution never to return home , and was quite determined , it was in vain to persuade her ; yet she regretted that the dread of pecuniary difficulties influenced her to embrace a dishonourable life , more particularly as she had ever shown her an example of fortitude . Rose intreated her to recollect that she always dreaded a life of vice , and had heard her frequently assert that she would endure mortification , insolence , and distress , rather than act wrong . She had hitherto , in every sorrow , confided in the goodness of Providence , that never forsakes those who trust firmly in its divine superintendence . Miss Douglas added , that it was with pain and reluctance she was obliged to mention that , since she had chosen to live in a manner so opposite to her principles , she must decline , much as she loved her , and ever should , any communication , unless she was deserted by the perfidious count . In that case , which she was apprehensive might occur , she should ever find her affectionate and friendly , though it was her duty to shun her while she lived in splendid guilt . Rose thanked her for her feeling and kindness in sending the ten-pound note , but begged to return it , as she could not , however embarrassed , accept a gift that would appear as if she wished to profit by her indiscretion . When Rose had sealed this letter , she directed it , with a trembling hand , to madame dae Fontenai , by which name Jane had told her she was now distinguished . Kamira was sent with it to Somerset-street , Portman-square , Jane having informed her that the count had taken a furnished house there for her as his wife . Rose told her not to wait for an answer , but merely give it in ; and the Indian and herself both agreed to tell whoever enquired after her sister , that she was absent on a visit , and if Mrs. Linn asked where she was , to repeat the same storey , as she had not perceived her departure . As Somerset-street was not far from her residence , Kamira soon returned , looking very dull , and said , in a melancholy tone — It be a fine grand house where Miss Jane live ; fat footman , with great paunch , open door . When me look at she's house , me ready to cry . Me think , me young lady like you sister , me choose live in Esquimaux hut , sleep in woods , than me be wicked in fine house , and have fine dress . Rose sighed . You must not sigh ; you kill yourself if fret . Me see that when you cry you very ill ; you heart not made for sorrow — you heart made for joy , though you know grief only . Cheer you breast , for if you die , you poor Kamira die too ; she not live , her dear Miss Rose gone . Rose blushed at her want of firmness , when she recollected the afflictions of the amiable Esquimaux — torn from her country , her husband , relations , and wounded by a sanguinary rival . In so many painful scenes and trials , her fidelity was unshaken ; and Rose suppressed the painful emotions that agitated her , to avoid giving uneasiness to the attached Indian . Eustace came , as he usually did almost every day , and perceiving Rose looked more pallid than she was in general , advised her to take a walk in the Park , as London had robbed her cheek of its rural bloom . He enquired after Miss Jane Douglas , and learnt she had quit home on a visit . Kamira , who was present when he asked Rose to walk , exclaimed — You go , Miss Rose ; put on you veil — nobody see you look ill then . Walk good for you — do you great good . Eustace laughed at the Indian's speech ; he was accustomed to hear her give advice ; and was acquainted with her history from Miss Douglas , who had described the ardour of her attachment to the whole family , though Rose was dearest to her faithful bosom . As Eustace and Rose proceeded to Hyde-park , he unexpectedly introduced the subject of his affection for her , which she endeavoured to evade . But fruitless were her attempts to divert his attention from this kind of conversation ; and most disagreeably was she surprised at his presuming to hint that he wished her to be his , on terms that she disdained from a man of the highest rank , and particularly from him . He mentioned that he could not afford to marry , being unable to support a wife in the style he must , if married , from his superior and respectable connexions . Rose would not interrupt him , purposely to hear how far his corrupt disposition would lead him to unveil his moral depravity , so contrary to virtuous principles . Beside , continued Eustace , ( who , from her silence , though she approved what he had advanced ) , I could not afford to let you dress so handsomely as you do now , like a lady of fortune and fashion ; it would make me wretched to see you , as my wife , less elegantly attired . But this promise I will solemnly make you , if you comply with my proposals , which is , that I will never marry another , and when I feel myself at the point of death , will then give you my hand , that , as my wife , you may take possession of my property . Rose felt quite indignant , and the utmost contempt for his wickedness and presumption , in supposing he could persuade her to be indiscreet . This pernicious disclosure of his vicious designs did not indeed wound her feelings as Courtenay's proposals had done , because he was indifferent to her , and her heart wholly engaged to another . She had been pleased with the gratitude he pretended to feel , and condescended , on that account , to consider him as a friend ; but his worthless behaviour , in daring to insult her with this gross declaration , forfeited completely all claim to her esteem , as she was convinced he had hoped to succeed from having been informed by her of the cloud that obscured the prosperity of her family at present . It was probable , she imagined , that he had also heard of her pecuniary difficulties and severe misfortunes , and , like an artful lawyer , wished to take advantage of her distress . To mortify him , therefore , she resolved to conceal her engagement with the noble and excellent sir Eglamour , as his vanity might attribute her refusal to being engaged , and conclude she would have weakly yielded to his persuasions , had she not been contracted to Delavalle . Her heart , her every thought , was truly devoted to her brave lover , who would have flown to her in the dark hour of adversity , and consoled her with his pure , his ardent affection . As Rose reflected on what Eustace had been saying , she could scarcely cheque herself from exclaiming — What a world is this , when such characters as yours , who ought to be grateful to me , endeavour , under the mask of friendship and regard , to effect my destruction ! While these thoughts passed in her mind , Eustace interpreted her silence as a propitious omen , and anxiously awaited her answer . He was , consequently , surprised and chagrined , when Rose calmly reprobated his infamous offer , tending evidently to ruin her peace of mind . No worldly consideration , she said , could tempt her to act incorrectly ; and she hoped , for his own sake , that he would , on reflection , be deeply concerned at having severely insulted a gentleman's daughter by a proposition so truly disgraceful to himself . I fear , continued Rose , that you must have had very low associates , and what is worse , extremely vicious companions , to have imbibed principles unworthy any one who has been well educated , and accustomed to good society . If you had but a small fortune , replied Eustace , whose mortification was inexpressible , I would , with delight , risk marrying you ; but with my narrow income it is impossible for me to support a wife . O , if you had but a fortune ! Then you do not think me a fortune of myself ? replied Rose , laughing : very ungallant truly ! The wisest plan , therefore , for you , is to quite give me up , which will be no difficult task , if I judge right ; for , be assured , if you were a king , I would reject your dishonourable proposals with the contempt I now do your present offer . Eustace was inwardly almost enraged to distraction ( though he stifled it ) at the cheerful indifference she displayed , as it proved her contemptible opinion of him . He became sullen and out of humour , which diverted Rose , and banished the recollection of her sorrows . He told her how ill and ugly she looked , and was at last so exceedingly impertinent , that she was obliged to say , that although she had wished to consider him as a friend , it was beneath her to endure a deficiency of politeness , and rudeness she did not deserve . Yet , in remembrance of their long acquaintance , and his professions of friendship and service , she would excuse his ill-humour , if he promised in future to conduct himself like a gentleman ; otherwise she must decline his visits . To these observations he answered not , but presented an excellent picture of spleen and sullenness , and coldly wishing her good-morning at her own door , he walked hastily off , secretly provoked at the spirit she had displayed , and that he had exposed himself without meeting any success . In the drawing-room was her worthy old Fairfield friend , Jerry Wizzle , waiting for her return . He had arrived in town from Devonshire on business for his father three days before ; and Rose felt truly glad to see him . She was greatly amused by his relating to her all the country news . After detailing every thing interesting , he suddenly asked her if she had seen Mr. Eustace ? I have this instant parted from him at the street-door , replied Rose , having been escorted by him to the Park and back again . It is a pity you are already engaged , said Mr. Jerry , with a smile , though certainly your choice is very superior . For what reason do you say you regret that I am engaged ? Because another wealthy offer would be at your ladyship's command . Assuredly you have heard that Mr. Eustace is come into possession , since his return to England , of a very handsome fortune ? The astonishment of Rose for some minutes was indescribable . She was silent a short time , and then exclaimed — I am doomed almost daily , Mr. Jerry , to receive some fresh instance of the deceit and falsehood of mankind . The first intelligence I gained from Eustace on his arrival , quite unasked , was the death of his relation , who had not left him a single shilling . He alleged his poverty as an excuse for not offering me his hand , being disappointed in his relative's having neglected to bequeathe him a legacy . How mean is deception ! and how contemptible and useless it is to speak untruths , when they are always discovered at last by some accident or other ! His character , observed Jerry Wizzle , has not been improved by adversity , which I have learnt lately he has severely experienced , and that he sought and obtained refuge at Treharne , where your father's roof sheltered him , and he found a home and consolation in your kindness that he could not meet with anywhere else . If this is true , he is a consummate ungrateful villain , for in my opinion , ingratitude deserves death : it is the blackest of all crimes . It is but too true , rejoined Rose , that not been disturbed before the flames reached to the wing of the building where you slept . The poor people in your neighbourhood feelingly lament the accident that has deprived them of the benevolent inhabitants of Treharne , and anxiously wish for the return of the whole family , universally respected and loved by its indigent neighbours . Mr. Jerry concluded with requesting he might have the pleasure of attending her next morning to a fashionable exhibition . He seemed to attach great value to her granting this favour ; and she could not refuse to confer this trifling happiness on her worthy old friend . After returning from the exhibition the following morning with Jerry , she found an unexpected letter from colonel Guilford lying on the table . Mr. Jerry said he would leave her now to peruse her letter , and went away much pleased with having publicly attended his lovely favourite , where he perceived with exultation how much she was admired . When he was gone , Rose found , on reading colonel Guilford's letter , that her sister had written to him , desiring he would consign her dear Caroline to the care of a trusty person she intended to send for the child . The colonel added , that since Jane had not explained for what reason she wished the infant to be sent , he should not give up his daughter ( whom he tenderly loved ) till he had heard from Miss Douglas likewise . Though Jane was fondly endeared to him , he continued , yet he doubted her prudence and judgement , which did not equal her sister's ; and being desired to direct his answer to another street made him very suspicious . He was apprehensive , from these observations , that all was not right , which made him uneasy , as he was solicitous that Jane's conduct should be correct ; and his first wish was to have it in his power to repair the injury he had committed from excess of fondness . The colonel ended with saying , that if he did not shortly receive a satisfactory letter from Rose , he should come up to town , and seek an explanation . To this letter it was a most difficult and painful task to return an answer . Rose must either expose her sister , or tell such falsehoods to excuse her as would be easily detected , and make her word doubted in future , which was inconsistent with her character , that disdained a violation of truth . She resolved , therefore , to wait some days before she answered it , and consult Mrs. Fane , whose advice she highly respected . This lady was the only person of their acquaintance to whom Jane's former imprudence was confided , and to her she could write on the subject of the misfortune that had since occurred ; it would not be an additional exposure , as if detailed to any other person less interested . The idea of giving pain to her mother ( already too deeply afflicted ) , was insupportable , and Rose determined to conceal the cruel event till the last moment it could be kept secret , which was quite soon enough to divulge an afflictive disclosure . Good news she was ever eager to communicate , but disagreeable intelligence she was unwilling to reveal before it was absolutely necessary . After much reflection , she intended in a day or two to write Mrs. Fane , and ask her opinion how she should act for the best . After Rose had formed this resolution , her uneasiness was , in a trifling degree , removed ; and at this moment , when her mind was more calm and resigned , a loud thundering at the door announced a visitor of importance . Rose looked from the window , and beheld with satisfaction lady Elinor's carriage . The sight of her was a healing balm , and her conversation , replete with sense and sweetness , was a real consolation , and banished the recollection of sorrow . Lady Elinor expressed her approbation of Felix . It was harmony indeed to Rose to listen to the praises of the brother she fondly loved , for the commendation of those she valued was a sound most pleasing to her affectionate heart . Lady Elinor's approbation of Felix suggested the thought , that probably she secretly admired him ; and it would have been her highest ambition to see him united to so charming and excellent a character . But her brother's want of fortune , even if they liked each other , would , she feared , be an insuperable obstacle to their union . While these ideas pervaded her breast , lady Elinor appeared very thoughtful , and then asked after Miss Jane . Rose felt a tremor agitate her frame at this question , and replied that her sister had left home on a visit , while the involuntary blush that suffused her cheek at uttering the shadow of an untruth , did not escape lady Elinor's penetration , who looked very serious — Do not think it is curiosity or impertinence that made me ask that question , but a motive very superior . I wish to speak to you on a subject that I am yet afraid to enter on , fearful of wounding your feelings ; but in justice to you and myself , I must conquer this reluctance . I entreat you not to be apprehensive of repeating whatever you judge proper , replied Rose . My sufferings have lately been so severe , that I can support with fortitude and resignation the intelligence you have to impart . I have myself no disguise , or any thing mysterious to conceal . Since you are thus candid , rejoined lady Elinor , you justify the favourable impression and good opinion I have always entertained of you ; and I will no longer hesitate to mention that I was at the play last night , with my worthy old relative , Mr. Murray , and a small party . In the next box was your sister , magnificently dressed , and sparkling with valuable jewels . Two women , whose appearance very evidently denoted they were loose suspicious characters , were talking familiarly with her ; and two gentlemen were particularly assiduous and attentive , while she was apparently flirting with them in high spirits . Your sister looked more dazzlingly lovely than I had ever seen her ; she was certainly rouged , having a much higher colour than she usually has , being in general pale ; for I used to call you the blush , and Miss Jane the white rose , from the opposite tints of your complexions . When her eye met mine and Mr. Murray's , I could see her countenance change , which the artificial colour did not hide , and she averted looks from our box ever afterwards . Mr. Murray immediately discovered the characters of the whole party she was with . The gentlemen were dissipated men of distinction , publicly known , and her female companions celebrated courtezans of great notoriety , who had their own carriages , and lived in the most dashing style . Miss Jane Douglas , observed Mr. Murray , is perhaps deceived by these women , and is unacquainted with their infamy . If so , she is to be pitied for being inveigled , by artifice and inexperience , to associate with them . But let the cause be what it will that places her in this description of company , it is due to your dignity and reputation to learn the truth ; and I recommend to you to go early tomorrow morning , and enquire , in an undisguised manner , into this affair . Of Miss Douglas I have a very high opinion , and her sister may have erred innocently in being seen in such improper society ; but if wilfully , it is right that Miss Jane should be admonished of the impropriety of associating with companions of that vicious class , as it will endanger her sister's reputation as well as her own , and oblige you to drop their acquaintance . Very reluctantly , I assure you , continued lady Elinor , did I conform to this advice ; and it pained me to observe the emotion you betrayed , as it seems to imply something wrong in Miss Jane's conduct . Delicacy prevented Mr. Murray from accompanying me here , but he will call this evening at our house to know the result of this unpleasant investigation . Rose was unutterably affected . The perturbation that convulsed her bosom prevented her from replying for some minutes ; and when at length she essayed to speak , a burst of tears denied her utterance . At witnessing this unaffected expression of sorrow , drops of sympathy and compassion trickled down lady Elinor's cheeks ; and it was impossible for her to attempt at consoling the unhappy Rose then , as she knew not the nature of her grief , though she suspected it . Miss Douglas threw herself at lady Elinor's feet , and grasping her hands exclaimed , in a voice faltering with emotion — Forsake me not , my friend ! my preserver ! that I love and esteem — whose humanity rescued me from ruin and distress ! If my unfortunate sister is guilty , I am innocent ; and the agonies I suffer to think of the degrading situation in which she has plunged herself , I fear I cannot survive . Lady Elinor raised her up with unequalled kindness , and intreated her to reflect that the indiscreet behaviour of Jane did not attach any blame to her , though it was undoubtedly a deep affliction that she should , by her levity and imprudence , have heightened the calamities of a family so truly amiable , and now bowed down with disappointment and anxiety . — We will hope to reclaim her yet , said the gentle lady Elinor ; Mr. Murray shall wait on her , and represent how unhappy you are , and his persuasions may cause a reformation . At all events , be comforted , my sweet friend ! I will solicit my father to let you reside with me , while we are in town . I have no doubt of obtaining his permission , and shall be delighted to have you with me . But if you do not recover your composure , and dry up your tears , I shall be quite hurt , as the only favour I ask in return for my friendship is , that you will receive consolation . Soothing to the ill-fated and heart - wounded Miss Douglas was the pity of this excellent young lady ; her smiles and sweetness blunted the keen edge of her misfortunes . Lady Elinor began conversing on other subjects , to divert her attention from one most distressing . She mentioned that she had many kind messages and the affectionate remembrance to deliver to her from poor Louise dae Rimont , who was in a very indifferent state of health . Louise regretted exceedingly not having seen Rose , who had not called for a long time at lady Morrington's , as her freezing coldness led her to imagine her visits were not acceptable ; had her ladyship indeed wished to see her , she would have declined going , after her mean deceit . Lady Morrington had desired mademoiselle dae Rimont never to call in South Audley-street : but this prohibition was useless at present , as her health would not allow her to quit the house . Rose feelingly lamented the lengthened illness of Louise , and observed , that had she known she continued so ill , she would have encountered , to see her , the proud looks and sarcasms of her ladyship . I am very glad , however , that your ignorance of the state of mademoiselle dae Rimont is health prevented your waiting on her , as lady Morrington would have been very insulting . Really I cannot endure the idea of your subjecting yourself to such insolence . Captain Courtenay is constantly with her , who , I understand from Louise , was once an unworthy lover of yours ; and you would not have liked to meet him there . The world slanders her amazingly for her extreme intimacy with this profligate man — unjustly , I hope , for the sake of her daughters and my lord , who is goodnatured and unsuspicious ( though passionate ) , and always speaks in handsome terms of you and your family . Lady Elinor continued conversing with Rose till her spirits and cheerfulness were in some degree restored . Her ladyship begged her to remember , as one source of self-approbation , that she had been a good sister , and exerted herself to reform Jane , and disguise her errors from being published . Since she had nobly performed her duty , she desired her to recollect also she had parents , who would be deprived of the comfort of an amiable daughter's affection , if she undermined her constitution with grieving constantly . Lady Elinor now took leave , with a promise of being with her on the morrow , with Mr. Murray , and that she would bring intelligence if she had succeeded in her request to her father , the earl of Arlberry . If successful , Kamira was to attend her mistress , and reside at the earl's during the period Rose would be an inmate at his residence . Miss Douglas had warmly extolled the Indian's remarkable fidelity , and interested lady Elinor in her behalf . When her incomparable friend left her , Rose commenced writing to Mrs. Fane , to whom she gave a minute relation of every thing that had happened and concerned her sister . Rose described the anxiety and grief she felt on her account , and how keenly she mourned the disgrace Jane had incurred by this additional act of imprudence . The anger of the general , from whom this elopement could not be for ever kept secret , and the anguish of her mother , all forcibly occurred to her mind , and made her shudder for the consequence . The delicate sense Mrs. Douglas had of female propriety and honour would be deeply wounded at her daughter's loss of virtue . Felix , she observed , would not , she was apprehensive , again pardon Jane , though he had once overlooked her indiscretion and folly . When Rose had finished this letter , she sent it to the general post , and was quite relieved with having unbosomed her grief to her worthy friend . Resignation and tranquillity , though clouded with sadness , reigned in her mind , till the promised visit from lady Elinor and the venerable Mr. Murray the following day . Mr. Murray looked more benign than she had ever seen him ; he was come to console a fair victim of affliction , and the benevolence of his nature irradiated his countenance . Rose admired his ruddy clear skin , that had the freshness of the cheek of youth ; and his shining silver locks , waving on his fine open forehead , where time had strewed but a few wrinkles , though so much advanced in years . Such is the old age of the beneficent and good . Lady Elinor's loveliness was likewise heightened by the soft and kind benignity of her heart . Her ladyship had gained the earl's permission to receive Miss Douglas under their roof ; and she was rejoiced at this opportunity of protecting and soothing her with the tenderness of a real friend ; it would prevent Rose from brooding alone over her calamities , as her sister's departure had left her without a companion , and Kamira was the only person to whom she could speak of her heartful woes . I am very glad , my fair friend , said Mr. Murray , to see you calm and resigned . Be not dejected ; the sorrows of those who innocently suffer are infinitely less acute than the pangs caused by guilt . I never listen to tales of malevolence and slander , proceeding often from malice and envy ; but I witnessed , with lady Elinor , the scene it hurt her feelings to describe . Anxiety for your reputation , which I wish to be as spotless as your mind , made me desirous to develop the truth . Give me your sister's direction , and I will endeavour to alleviate your grief respecting her , by exciting , if possible , contrition ; and hope , by my friendly admonitions , to restore a repentant sister to you . Rose expressed her gratitude , and Mr. Murray wrote Jane's address in his pocket - book , promising to let her quickly know the success of his visit to her . Miss Douglas now arranged with lady Elinor the day on which she was to take up her abode at the earl of Arlberry is . It was agreed , that in two days lady Elinor was to come in the carriage , and convey back to the earl's Rose and the faithful Indian , with the little property she possessed ; and this being settled , Mr. Murray and his amiable relative left her again alone . Rose reflected , when they were gone , she had to pay Mrs. Linn for the lodging , with the additional expense for another week , as she had not given warning ; and on reclearing the contents of her purse , found that she had not sufficient cash to discharge the debt . To ask a boon of lady Elinor , after the benefit before conferred , she thought would be indelicately intrusive ; and recollecting lady Beaufort's late professions of wishing to serve her , and her recent good-nature , she determined to apply directly to her ladyship ; it would be injurious to her friend to entertain the idea of a refusal . Accordingly , she instantly dispatched a note to her by the twopenny - post , requesting her immediate assistance , observing , that as lady Beaufort mentioned , when they last met , that she was pleased she considered her as one of her friends , she had now used the privilege of friendship . Miss Douglas was perfectly tranquil respecting the event of this request , as it would have been injuring lady Beaufort to doubt her willingness to assist her , since she had it in her power to grant this favour . Early the next morning , to her extreme surprise , at an hour so unusual , a loud knock at the door made her expect to see one of her acquaintance . The person , of all others the most foreign to her thoughts , soon after entered : it was lady Morrington , whom she least thought to behold of all beings in existence . Her ladyship advanced to Rose with a formal haughty air , and thus addressed her — I am empowered , madam , by lady Beaufort , to inform you , that she can by no means comply with your request , and deputes me to tell you , that she desires you will not send her any more begging letters . Rose could scarcely command her countenance when lady Morrington spoke . Her assumed starched appearance , which she intended for impressive dignity , to awe and terrify Rose , had so striking an effect on her risible muscles , that she could not suppress a smile when she replied — I pity poor lady Beaufort for her meanness and duplicity . Tell her that a title cannot ennoble a low mind , and only makes her insincerity , malignity , and grossness , more glaring . I suppose she thought her malevolence would strike deeper by making you her messenger , who , she has often mentioned , was quite my enemy . Paltry , mean creature ! how much I compassionate her little mind , and deplore , for her own sake , her guilty deceit ! This is fashionable friendship ; give me in future unfashionable sincerity . Your ladyship will confer a great favour by repeating this exactly , and I am sorry for the trouble you have had . Astonished at the spirit Rose displayed , anger flashed from the large eyes of the disappointed lady Morrington , who seemed inclined to depart from the precise air she had affected . However , on second thoughts , she gulped down her mortification of rage , and rose from her seat , which she had taken while Miss Douglas was speaking . Rose flew to the bell , and very ceremoniously attended her ladyship to the door of the drawing-room . Unable to articulate from vexation , at the ease and indifference with which she had received her former friend's vulgar insult , she slightly bowed her head , and retired , eager to acquaint lady Beaufort with the contempt Rose had evinced at her insulting low attempt to mortify her . Lady Beaufort knew that Rose was much attached to her , and had exquisite feeling , and hoped that the shock caused by her insulting message would have made her very ill . It did not occur to her ladyship's narrow mind , that when a person becomes contemptible by their degrading conduct , they are too much despised for their malignity to have any effect ; such studi ed malevolence recoils on the author of it . To supply the money deficient to pay Mrs. Linn's bill , Rose sent her trusty Kamira with a valuable diamond ring , and several other trinkets , to a jeweller's , to borrow some cash on them . The Indian soon returned with money sufficient to relieve her pecuniary distress , which made her exceedingly comfortable , by removing her difficulties for the present . Rose was consoled at being obliged to part with these jewels , as they were gifts from her parents , by the hope of shortly redeeming them , and with reflecting that she should very soon be at no expense , either for herself or Kamira , by residing with lady Elinor . The trifling evils that malice wished to inflict she smiled at and contemned . Chapter VI . Fair fleeting flower , so early snatched away ! A day thy span — alas ! a stormy day ! Dae Lille . When Miss Douglas and lady Elinor had the happiness of meeting , the former imparted to her friend the gross insult she had received from lady Beaufort . Despicable creature ! exclaimed lady Elinor ; she cannot bear prosperity . Though rich before she married , her pride was concealed , like a smothered flame , as it was a terrible drawback to know herself the natural child of an obscure woman . Had she continued unmarried , or married a man in a less elevated station of life , she would have been more amiable and humble , instead of suffering malice , the most horrible of all passions , to inhabit her breast . I never knew prosperity , observed Rose , but have been informed it is more difficult to support than adversity ; however , I should like the trial , and from what I have seen of the world , I imagine it will be a lesson of humility that I shall never forget . You have often heard me assert , replied lady Elinor , that I never liked lady Beaufort . She is pretty , but has too much of the expression of a cat in her face , which denotes spite . I am a little of a physiognomist , and perceive a great deal of ill-nature in her countenance , which her satirical , envious , and severe remarks , on every female who is more captivating than herself , confirm . I have been quite ashamed to hear her vent her spleen . You have heard my sentiments before , yet your partiality blinded you . Do not be uneasy at your conduct in prosperity : it will not elate and make you forget yourself , or have less commiseration for the unfortunate . But let us talk no more of this insensible malicious lady Beaufort ; it is indeed a dull subject , for she is truly inanimate , and will converse for hours about a new cap or dress , so vacant is her empty mind . With your good sense , I am surprised you could like any thing so insipid , though I conclude your good-nature gave her credit for all the fine qualities she assumed . The day after Rose was domesticated with lady Elinor , she received a note from Mr. Murray , informing her he had been unsuccessful in getting admittance to her sister , as she was always said to be out , or engaged : but he still flattered himself that at some period or other he should obtain an opportunity of remonstrating with her , and succeed in persuading her to renounce the count dae Fontenai , unless he made atonement by offering his hand to Miss Jane Douglas . Before lady Elinor conveyed Rose to her residence , she took an affectionate leave of the good people , her landlord and landlady , who were quite afflicted at her unexpected departure . Rose promised to see them again , and had the satisfaction of finding herself most happily situated with lady Elinor . The earl of Arlberry had superior manners , but was one of those characters that have no striking trait to distinguish them , and was not gifted with much talent for conversation . His passions were calmly regulated , and neither joy or sorrow seemed to make any impression on the equanimity that governed them . If he was displeased , he was too polite to express his resentment warmly , and was one of those beings who walk quietly through life , without pain , but with very little pleasure . His daughter was the object of his strongest attachment , and to her he was indulgent . Lord Arlberry had a place at court , which chiefly engaged his time , and Rose was happy at seeing his lordship rarely , as his frigid , though strictly polite manners , and ceremonious address , were so opposite to lady Elinor's , who was equally correct in politeness , without his chilling reserve . Miss Douglas had been a week with her friend — a week that would have passed in genuine happiness , had it not been clouded by the recollection of sir Eglamour's absence and distance from her , united with the painful remembrance of her sister's situation . At this period a letter arrived from Mrs. Fane , entreating Rose to set off directly for her residence , where she should find a home for ever , if she approved it , and another parent , as she tenderly loved her as her own daughter . Mrs. Fane added , that she could not endure the prospect of her remaining alone in London , a place fraught with dangers for young people , as she was of opinion Jane might have escaped the contagion of error , had she been elsewhere . This considerate lady assured her that she intended waiting on colonel Guilford , and disclosing to him candidly the events that had lately passed , to spare Rose the distressing avowal ; and concluded with observing , that Caroline was grown a lovely child , and resembled her aunt more than her mother . Rose was musing on the contents of this friendly letter , when a note was delivered to her , with the address scarcely legible . On opening it , she perceived some lines scrawled apparently by a very inferior hand . At the first perusal they were unintelligible from incorrect spelling , but on closely examining the writing , she deciphered , with unutterable sensations of horror , that Jane was dying , and that if she wished to see her any more alive , she must hasten instantly to Somerset-street . To describe the agony of Rose is impossible ; yet she checked her anguish , as it was indispensably requisite she should act , and , perhaps , by prompt exertion might save her . With a countenance that portrayed her mental sufferings , she threw on hastily a bonnet and shawl , and rushed into her friend's room . Without speaking , she put the note into her hand . Lady Elinor read it , and then gazed at her face , which betrayed internal suppressed woe surpassing description . Acutely did she participate in the repeated sorrows destined to invade her tranquillity . — I see your fortitude , she exclaimed , and admire it . Persevere ! We will have a hackney-coach , and I will go with you to the door of that hateful house . Rose pressed her hand with gratitude , but could not speak . The coach was procured , and , overcome with dejection and dread , Rose got into the vehicle , followed by her true friend . They both preserved a mournful silence till it stopped at the detestable house where Jane had fatally taken up her abode . Rose breathed with difficulty — a faintness came over her , and , in a voice scarcely audible , she requested lady Elinor , on her return home , to send Kamira to her . A footman now opened the door , whose countenance boar witness that some dreadful scene had been acted here . Faltering as she spoke , Rose asked for madame dae Fontenai . Will you be so good as to walk this way , replied the man , and ascending the stairs , conducted Miss Douglas to a drawing-room . A medical gentleman and a female attendant stood near a large couch , where was extended the nearly-expiring form of Jane . The white robe that enveloped her slender figure was spotted in several places with blood , that flowed from a mortal wound that had pierced her side . Rose advanced to the couch where her unhappy sister reclined , with approaching death imprinted on every line of her once animated face . A faint smile lightly gleamed over it at the sight of Rose . — Dear sister ! she articulated , with difficulty , by coming — to me — you smooth — my last moments . I wished — to tell you — as a consolation — to your pure soul — that yesterday — I was married — to the count — by a Catholic priest . I was wretched — at not being — his wife . His love was not weakened ; to make me happy — he consented — we were united — and he lamented — that distrust — in which he was — educated — that made him unjust — till then . He doubted my affection — and feared I might — abandon him — and caused — his reluctance — to marry me . Fatal suspicion ! it has ruined me ― Jane's breath grew now so short , that she was obliged to rest some minutes before she could proceed ; yet she seemed very anxious to continue speaking . The doctor administered a cordial to her , and she revived sufficiently to again address Rose . By this early death — my faults will , I hope , be expiated ― My father — my mother — and Felix — remember me to ! — Forgive — all — all — I have made you suffer — Bless — my — child ― be — its — mother — better — than I should — have — been ― Here the unfortunate Jane's respiration became more difficult than ever , and Rose raised up her hand to relieve her . She took her cold clammy hand in hers , which Jane feebly pressed , and breathed her last sigh in the arms of her affectionate sister , her dying glance resting on her countenance , nearly as white as her own , shaded with the pale livery of death . Jane had expired without a groan , and looked so serene and pleasing , that Rose did not imagine that the last closing scene of life was over . When fatally convinced that her spirit had fled from its earthly tenement , and that the fortitude she had assumed could no longer benefit her beloved sister , insensible , alas ! to kindness or cruelty , Rose yielded to deep , heart-rending sorrow . With frantic grief she uttered the most heart-piercing shrieks , for having suppressed the anguish that overwhelmed her , to avoid afflicting Jane , it had a more violent effect when she could indulge it . The dear companion of her earliest youth , for whose sake she had encountered the greatest uneasiness , was gone , and lost , never to return , in the most shocking and affecting manner . The only shadow of comfort that remained was her having been united to the count dae Fontenai , and it was now in Rose's power to conceal from her parents the erroneous part of her sister's conduct . Kamira and the benevolent Mr. Murray arrived happily at the critical moment when Miss Douglas's agonising sorrow was at the greatest height . Though nearly delirious with the frenzied grief that threatened to shake her reason , Mr. Murray insisted on her being removed to the earl of Arlberry is residence . With difficulty they tore her from the inanimate corpse of her loved sister , which she embraced and kissed , and then spoke to it , as if living , with a tenderness and affection that melted all who were present , and tears of pity fell from every eye . Mr. Murray and her sister's female servant attended Rose to the earl's , where lady Elinor received her with a kindness and compassion that first calmed the distraction of her perturbed mind . Kamira remained with the breathless body of the hapless and misguided countess dae Fontenai , to watch over and see that the last sad duties were paid to all that was left of this once lively and lovely woman , who had fallen an early sacrifice to levity and imprudence . When Mr. Murray had seen Rose safely placed under the protection of the amiable lady Elinor , he returned to Somerset-street , to enquire into the particulars relative to this sad catastrophe , and received nearly the following intelligence : — Colonel Guilford was quite impatient at not receiving an answer by return of post from Miss Douglas . In consequence of this disappointment , he set off directly for London , and , the day after his arrival , watched about the house where Jane resided , as he would not approach her former residence , fearful of seeing Rose , with whom he was offended for not immediately answering his letter , and suspected that she approved whatever line of conduct her sister chose to pursue . From a window opposite to the house , he beheld , with stifled rage , Jane come out , leaning on the arm of the count dae Fontenai ; and the mistress of the house informed him , that she understood the young gentleman and lady were a new-married couple . On the following day he planted himself in his former post , and again had the mortification of seeing her , elegantly dressed , and more attractive to him than before , handed into a handsome chariot by the count , who got in afterwards . He was driven to frenzy at this sight , for either as Dae Fontenai is mistress or wife , to him she was irrecoverably lost . Guilford really loved Jane , and would not have deserted her for any consideration , having incurred immense expense and trouble to obtain her . Distraction seized his brain , as the pangs of disappointed love agonised his mind , and remorse touched his heart for having first led her astray from the paths of duty , which caused her to more easily become the victim , a second time , of temptation . Determined to revenge himself on his happy rival , whose felicity he was resolved should not be unmolested , as he considered Jane as torn from him without hope , he armed himself with a brace of loaded pistols . Vengeance and wounded affection racked his tortured breast , and he was firm in his purpose of making the count fight , and inwardly decided that either Dae Fontenai or himself should lifeless fall . Colonel Guilford stationed himself in Somerset-street till he perceived the count , who had gone out exceedingly early , return home . From the window where he had watched them previously , he beheld him enter the drawing-room where Jane was . Wild with jealousy , and a desire to be revenged , he hastily left his concealment opposite , and knocked at his rival's door . A maid-servant opened it , and without asking any questions , he rushed up the stairs , and into the drawing-room , leaving the maid , who took him for a robber , in terror and amazement . When Guilford entered , with the look of a maniac , Jane shrieked with horror . She was seated in an affectionate manner by the side of Dae Fontenai ( who had the day before made her his bride ) ; her hand was clasped in his , and his arm was round her waist . Guilford's brain maddened at the sight . He drew the fatal pistols from his pocket . — Here , destroyer of my peace ! he madly exclaimed , in a furious voice , take one of these ! both or either of us shall die ! Let that faithless creature , that I still love to distraction , see us perish , and share the mischief , the misery she has made me suffer ! The count , though a fop , was not deficient in courage ; he seized one of the pistols , and Guilford the other . At that moment Jane , till then silent , and petrified with gloomy terror , flew to him , and endeavoured , almost unconscious of what she did , to wrest the pistol from his hand . In the struggle it suddenly went off , and its contents lodged in the side of the wretched Jane . She groaned , tottered a few steps , and then fell fainting on the floor . Dae Fontenai , wild with affliction and anguish , raised her from the spot where she fell , and placed her on the couch . Colonel Guilford , stunned at beholding the ruin he had caused , and the murdered senseless body of her he loved , staggered almost insensible to the further end of the room . The count thought that he , the author of this horrible spectacle , who had perhaps deprived him for ever of the object he adored , was now trying to escape from the misery he had caused . The idea enraged him to fury ; he looked at Jane , who appeared mortally wounded , and grasping the other pistol , which the colonel had thrown down , with too sure an aim shot Guilford through the heart , who uttered a heavy groan , sunk convulsed , writhed in agony , and breathed his last sigh . The heart-piercing shrieks of Jane when wounded , the groans of the expiring Guilford , and report of the pistols , brought up the servants , who were alarmed at these unusual sounds . They advised and besought their master to save himself before it was too late , as , if he remained , he would be apprehended for the murder of colonel Guilford . The count was unwilling to quite Jane , who was beginning to recover her senses ; but they represented so forcibly the danger that would attend him if he continued there , and that he would then be snatched from her , that he yielded to their humane entreaties for him to be gone . After imprinting a mournful kiss on her pale lips , Dae Fontenai quit his home , and travelled expeditiously to the nearest seaport , to take the first opportunity of embarking for a foreign country , till the event of the prosecution that would probably be commenced against him by Guilford's friends was determined . The servants had promised the count that the greatest care should be taken of madame dae Fontenai , and the most assiduous attention paid her . They had urged the necessity of his instant flight , as his being a foreigner would be very much to his disadvantage . A surgeon was sent for to examine the wounds of Jane and Guilford . Jane revived a little , and sufficiently so afterwards to desire her sister might be sent for , though her wound was pronounced mortal ; but in Guilford the last struggle of expiring nature had passed — he was quite dead . His body was removed into another apartment , and seldom had a scene so replete with horror , and appalling to the feeling mind , been witnessed . Mr. Murray sent an express to Guilford's elder brother , with whom he was slightly acquainted . He was a man of large fortune , and had the body conveyed to his residence a few miles from town . When the cause of his death was related to him , and by whose hand he had fallen , he was resolved to avenge colonel Guilford's fate by a strict search after the count dae Fontenai , whom he determined to bring to justice , that he might be tried for his brother's murder . Mr. Murray secretly hoped that Dae Fontenai had by this time escaped , as the horrible catastrophe would , if the count was seized , be publicly mentioned , and cause the deepest affliction to the general and the surviving part of his family , and on that account he wished this unfortunate affair to be consigned to oblivion . Kamira remained in Somerset-street till the interment of the lamented Jane , the hapless victim of her own imprudence , had taken place . So many tears did the feeling Esquimaux shed for her untimely end , that she was nearly reduced to a skeleton ; and when she appeared before Rose attired in deep mourning , scarcely could she recognise her . Thus few , degrading , and unhappy for herself , were the days of the young , the giddy , and lovely Jane . The transient moments of pleasure she enjoyed could not recompense her for the acute hours of remorse and misery she endured . Had her indiscretion only wounded her own peace , the fate she sought would not have been so lamentable ; but grief for her premature melancholy death was likewise severely destructive to the health of her sister , and caused her friend lady Elinor to be apprehensive that the consequence of her sorrow would be fatal , and general Douglas be deprived , almost at the same period , of both daughters . Lady Elinor endeavoured to infuse the balm of consolation into her dejected mind ; she represented the additional anguish of her parents and brother , if she also sunk into the grave , and the agony of her faithful lover , sir Eglamour , to find on his return the dear object of his affection torn from him without hope . Rose was too reasonable to refuse listening to the consoling voice of disinterested friendship , and by slow degrees recovered . She reflected , and recalled to remembrance her mother's words , who had often said to her and her sister , that repentance and pain generally follow the steps of guilt , too fatally illustrated in her sister's sad destiny . To Mrs. Fane devolved the cruel task of communicating as cautiously as possible the death of their daughter to the general and his lady , but not the dreadful circumstances attendant on it . Mrs. Fane wrote a letter to Mrs. Douglas , in which she said she sincerely condoled with her on her late great loss , and truly felt its extent ; but when she reflected it was the act of the greatest and best of beings , she hoped she would not refuse consolation . Doubtless , continued Mrs. Fane , your calamity is the most heart-rending which can befall a parent ; but recollect that you still possess good and dutiful children , and I am sure that you will be resigned to that Providence which comforts while it chastens . They , too , can never forget the comfort afforded them by your regard , and the affection of their father . However kind and consolatory were the suggestions of Mrs. Fane , yet this unexpected blow deeply wounded , though the general supported the fatal stroke with more fortitude than his wife . They were both solicitous that Rose should immediately visit Mrs. Fane , as the change of air might be beneficial to her health , which they understood was much injured by the shock her feeling heart had sustained . They derived much comfort from the occasional society of their son , who concealed his own grief to alleviate theirs . As soon as Rose found her strength sufficiently restored , in compliance with their wishes she intended to commence her journey into Devonshire ; yet she dreaded to revisit the scene of her innocent and youthful happiness , since it would forcibly remind her of her loved sister , whose errors were forgotten in the grave , and her good and pleasing qualities only remembered . Mild as Rose naturally was , she was detested , and could hardly restrain from execrating Mrs. Pryce , the original source of all Jane's faults and sorrows , as the society of an unprincipled vicious woman is replete with danger for a young person whose pliant disposition is easily susceptible of dangerous impressions ; yet she was anxious to embrace the orphan Caroline — ill-fated child of unfortunate parents , whom she determined ever to regard , and consider with the tenderness of a mother . The separation between lady Elinor and Rose was particularly affecting on the part of the latter , who quit her with unfeigned regret . Her heart , which was alive to gratitude , felt at that instant the very great obligations she had conferred . So rich , so fair , and high in rank ; and to blend with all these advantages the purest compassion , with a benevolence that sought privacy , was a character so infinitely angelic , that she must only be known to be ardently loved . Lady Elinor had not merely commiserated her woes , but effectually served her ; and when she pressed her hand at parting , the evident emotion of her countenance convinced this friend of the children of sorrow that her feeling beneficence had not been bestowed on an ingrate . Never will I forget how much I owe you , exclaimed Rose to lady Elinor , just before her departure . Esteem and gratitude shall be cherished in my breast , till life no longer exists ; with my last sigh alone shall your goodness vanish from remembrance . The earl of Arlberry is carriage conveyed Rose , accompanied by Kamira , the first stage on their journey to Devonshire . When the venerable Murray took leave of her , the day before she left London , he mentioned that , as he was acquainted with every particular relating to the affairs of her family , he would acquaint her with a sudden thought that had occurred to him . He was reflecting on the difficulties thrown in the general's way to prevent his taking possession of his late brother's estates and property , and recollected that the clergyman she had spoken of as having united sir James Douglas to Helen Ramsay was probably his cousin , as he had a relation of that name belonging to the church . In consequence of this reflection , he intended writing to the reverend Mr. Murray , to enquire if he had ever resided near the Castle of Towie Craigs , and married sir James , or Davie M'Gregor , to the woman called Helen Ramsay . Mr. Richard Murray continued to say , that in the event of hearing any thing satisfactory , he would write her the account at Mrs. Fane's , and also inform general Douglas of the agreeable intelligence , which he should be most happy to communicate . A faint dawn of hope gleamed in the bosom of Rose at this unexpected discovery ; but she dared not indulge the pleasing expectation , from the fear of disappointment , to which she had become inured . Yet she ardently wished that her father might conquer his misfortunes , and his declining years happiness , tranquillity , and plenty , would then crown . After lord Arlberry's carriage had returned to town , Rose and Kamira got into a postchaise , as lady Elinor had insisted on defraying the expenses of her journey , and would not allow her , in the weakened state of her health , to travel in a public conveyance . The spirits of the feeling Esquimaux , hitherto generally all life and vivacity , were strikingly altered and depressed , and she was never cheerful but when she perceived Miss Douglas less sad . Rose had written to Mrs. Fane , mentioning at what time she expected to arrive at the nearest inn , about a mile from her residence ; and here she found that lady's post-chariot waiting to convey her home . This attention was most pleasing , and the soothing consolation of her kindness , when she arrived , a little renovated her dejected mind . Mrs. Fane observed that Rose and Kamira were apparently much fatigued ; she insisted on their retiring instantly to rest , and perceiving that Rose had a slight cold , gave her some whey herself in bed . Miss Douglas arose the following morning , much benefited by the truly maternal tenderness of her old friend , and was quite refreshed and revived . After breakfasting together , she told Mrs. Fane it was her intention to walk over to Treharne to visit Robin and Dolly , and as soon as her strength was more recruited , to call upon Caroline . You are not strong enough to walk so far yet , replied Mrs. Fane : my chariot shall convey you to the Hall , where you may amuse yourself in strolling about the garden , and then return here . Rose thanked her , and Mrs. Fane ordered it to be brought to the door as soon as it could be got ready . Miss Douglas was composed and resigned , till the turrets of Treharne appeared in view , rising above the trees ; her heart palpitated , and a cold shivering came over her : but when the whole of the edifice broke on her sight , she flung herself back in the carriage , and wept in agony . The desolate demolished appearance of the old mansion reminded her of her own fate , and that of her family . Part of it was laid in the dust , as Jane the youngest of them was , perhaps never to be restored , as the miserable state of their finances seemed to denounce that it must remain for ever in ruins . Kamira sounded the wellknown bugle , and Robin and Dolly , clad in deep mourning , the gift of Mrs. Fane , appeared directly on the Hall steps . The father and daughter both crossed the river to ferry them over . We be main glad to see you , Miss , exclaimed Dolly , though be sure it be a sorrowful meeting . Don't'ee be talking of dismal things gone by , rejoined Robin . Miss is dull enough , Dolly ; she shan't be minded of what's past : it is a long lane that has no turning ; when things are at the worst they'll mend . You must show Miss Rose what care you have taken of her plants and harmitage . It has divarted me a great deal , said Dolly , to tend them , for it has been so lonely ever since you left , Miss , for Lunnun . You would have thought , for all the world , there were scores of devils here . I can't say what to make of it . I used to say my prayers over and over again , when I heard their rigs . What nonsense , girl , you do tell ! I be so mortal glad to see Miss , that I have forgotten all the noises and vagaries of the evil spirits , if as how they be such . Rose prevented a continuance of this conversation , by making Robin a handsome present to drink hers and his master and mistress's health , not forgetting to include her brother's . She likewise charmed Dolly , by informing her she had brought down a smart bonnet and shawl for her to wear on Sundays and holidays , which quite won the simple maiden's heart . Dolly now attended Miss Douglas and Kamira to the garden and hermitage . Her young lady was much pleased with the neat order in which she had kept the plants and hermitage . When they had walked about and examined every thing , Rose told Kamira to go and chat with her old friends , Robin and Dolly , and she would in that interval walk over the apartments that remained of their once-extensive and comfortable , though ancient residence . Rose experienced a melancholy pleasure in retracing the scenes of her early youth , before real sorrow had clouded her moments . In the library her sister's lute reminded her of happier days , and affected her so much , that she desisted from exploring any more of the apartments , and left the library . She recollected having forgotten her scarf , and that it was in her former bedchamber . As she went in search of it , she inwardly determined to make Kamira remove every article that would remind her of Jane into a closet in that room , and carefully lock them up . Rose was descending the stairs , after recovering her scarf , overwhelmed with pensive reflections , when happening accidentally to turn her head , she perceived , from a door on the staircase , a man with a rough black head , peeing at her . Miss Douglas behaved as if she had not perceived him , and hoped that he thought she had not , as she proceeded slowly and quietly down . The unexpected object she had beheld on the staircase she did not notice to Robin or Dolly , as it would alarm their fears . Rose conjectured that he belonged to the gang of thieves who she imagined had caused the strange sounds that occasionally , for so many years , had molested the Hall at night , and at length , she supposed , set the building on fire . It might indeed be a sweetheart of Dolly's , whom she had received probably unknown to her father . In that case , she was averse to discovering this love affair , by mentioning what she had seen , as the old man would most likely be displeased with his daughter . With her firmly-attached Indian , Rose now quit Treharne , overcome with dejection ; for the picture of desolation this once-cheerful mansion presented , where happiness and gaiety formerly enlivened its antique walls , was so forcibly contrasted with its lonely ruined air , that her spirits were depressed by the painful recollections it recalled . Yet each corroding care and pensive thought were removed as with a magic wand , when she discovered the pure and unexpected felicity that awaited her on returning home . Sir Eglamour Delavalle , brave as he was good , was waiting to receive her at the door of Mrs. Fane's residence . He handed her from the carriage , looking more handsome and fascinating than ever . The transition from pensive sadness to excess of happiness nearly overpowered Rose . Supported by her faithful lover , she reached the drawing-room , and being then free from witnesses , they affectionately embraced . This instant of purest bliss rewarded them for every anxious and painful moment they had endured ; and only those who have truly loved can imagine their genuine unalloyed delight . To gaze on the form — to hear the voice they loved , was to them unequalled joy . Much are those to be pitied who are incapable of the tenderness of true affection , which ennobles there heart , susceptible then of the best and noblest impressions . Sir Eglamour described the hardships and privations he had encountered in Holland . He observed to Rose , that he was frequently obliged to sleep with his men and brother-officers on the damp muddy ground . Often did the rain pour down in torrents on their unsheltered heads ; yet still they all slept soundly , exhausted with fatigue , and he had not experienced one day's illness in consequence . — It is your prayers , my sweet love , he exclaimed , and touched her cheek , that have protected in the hour of peril . Rose blushed ; and every shadow of grief was banished from her mind in his loved society . When the delirium of joy at their meeting had in a day or two subsided , and allowed them to think of other things less interesting , Rose related to Delavalle the events that had taken place since his departure , with the exception of Jane's imprudence . On this painful subject he made no enquiry , having heard , with concern , of her death , from lady Elinor , to whom he was directed , by Mr. Linn , to learn where Miss Douglas was residing . Lady Elinor had merely informed sir Eglamour that Jane was married to the count dae Fontenai , and that an enraged rival had occasioned the fatal catastrophe , which had deeply afflicted her sister and other relations . In the course of conversation , Rose likewise acquainted her lover with the nocturnal sounds that had for some years , at different periods , disturbed her repose ; the suspicion also lurking in her mind , that the persons who caused those extraordinary noises were the same that had set Treharne Hall on fire , and her alarm at seeing the rough-headed man peeping at her , on her last visit to the old mansion . Rose also candidly imparted the difficulties herself and family had sustained , and the dreary prospect now afforded of general Douglas being deprived of the fortune bequeathed by her uncle . Sir Eglamour smiled . He perceived the uneasiness she felt , and instantly endeavoured to disperse it . — The loss of fortune shall not afflict you , he exclaimed , with energy : that I can repair . I possess a very liberal income , and am delighted to assure you it is in my power to shelter you from pecuniary cares ; and not only the woman I love , but the general and your mother shall likewise partake of whatever I possess . It will not be any sacrifice for you , on such an occasion , to practise a little more economy than otherwise would be necessary , as we are neither of us inclined to be extravagant . Could any heart , susceptible of gratitude and affection , refrain from loving , with more than common attachment , such a man , so nobly superior , who combined with distinguished virtue an elegant and perfect exterior ? It occurs to me , continued Delavalle , that the secrets of the caverns are connected with the smugglers who wounded me , and after whom I made a frequent and unsuccessful search . Your communication will , I hope , lead to a discovery , at which I shall truly rejoice , after a fruitless and continual pursuit of these rascally fellows . I shudder , replied Rose , at the most distant idea of your encountering these desperate villains . If you have the most trifling regard for me , do not think of risking your valued life in endeavouring to bring them to justice . For your sake , if not for my own , I shall be very cautious in the steps I take against them . But , to speak the truth , I should dislike exceedingly to fall by such dishonourable hands ; therefore , depend on my being vigilant and prudent . It is my intention to attack them with a strong force , well armed , and there cannot be the most remote fear of danger , when you consider the precaution I shall observe . Rose was a little calmed by this assertion , yet her anxiety lest any accident should happen to him still remained , as she was tremblingly alive with solicitude for those she loved ; but his promise that he would be careful , and not rash , contributed to sooth her uneasiness . Part of a regular marching regiment was quartered at Exeter . Sir Eglamour was slightly acquainted with one of the officers , who introduced him shortly after to the colonel . He then mentioned the affair of the smugglers in confidence to him , as it was strictly proper and prudent the measures he intended to take should be kept secret , that these ruffians might not be aware of the plan laid to ensnare them . It frequently happens , that when fortune has smiled in one instance , she will continue to repeat her favours , and is as liberal of them as of her former frowns . A short time after the arrival of sir Eglamour , Rose received a letter Mr. Richard Murray , in which he mentioned having had an answer from his relation , the clergyman , informing him that he was resident several years near the Castle of Towie Craigs , and married Davie M'Gregor to Helen Ramsay . This relation added , that a report of his death had been spread , which had encouraged , he imagined , the villainous attorney to invent the tale respecting sir James's marriage , who , contrary to every idea of marrying a woman so obscure , had , in his hearing , often expressed an aversion to Helen , saying she was a bold impudent creature , and that he would discharge her from his service when his health was restored . The clergyman gave the same character of Davie as was previously sketched , observing that he was inoffensive and well - disposed . His place of abode , he doubted not , would be easily discovered , and he ready to come forward to serve the general , if necessary . But his testimony of the falsehood of Helen's statement would , he imagined , be quite sufficient to prove a conspiracy to deprive general Douglas of his lawful property . Mr. Richard Murray continued to write , that in consequence of this information he had written to her father , and to his relation , desiring the latter to wait immediately on general Douglas , and give him all the intelligence in his power to elucidate this iniquitous transaction . It was his intention , he observed , to defray the expenses he would incur ; and that he was convinced the general would feel truly happy to make him a handsome recompense for his trouble , as the fortunate termination of this affair was of the greatest importance to his and his children's interest . This joyful communication , in addition to the felicity that before exhilarated her spirits , was nearly overwhelming , after the repeated sorrows Rose had sustained ; and she felt that excess of joy was difficult to support . The decline of her excellent parents ' lives would be smooth and tranquil , after their severe sufferings , and she was enraptured at this good news , because it would also please her disinterested lover . He had proved that his affection was void of any regard to private advantage , which heightened her solicitude to reward his generous attachment . She was highly gratified that he would not at present enter into a distressed family , nor receive her without a portion . Sir Eglamour appeared to her of so liberal a disposition , that she reflected it would be desirable for him to be wealthy , from the excellent use he would make of his riches , by befriending those who required assistance from the benevolent . Yet , amid all these smiling prospects , a sigh escaped her bosom ; when the remembrance of Jane clouded her moments of delighted expectation . She wished that her sister had endured their calamities with resignation , and then she would have enjoyed their prosperity in innocence and peace . In the mean while , sir Eglamour , who had formed his plan relative to exploring the caverns , to penetrate into the secrets they concealed , now began to put his scheme into execution . He procured from his new acquaintance , colonel Jenkins , fifty soldiers , well armed , not dressed in their military habits , but in shabby plain clothes . They all arrived one dark evening at Treharne , and were received quietly by Robin , who distributed and secreted them in different parts of the ruined building , which was extensive enough to have contained a greater body of men ; but most of them were placed near the cellars , where the fire had been first kindled . In the dead of the night , when all had retired to rest , and every thing was still , sir Eglamour , unknown to Rose , stole down the stairs , and softly opening the house-door at Mrs. Fane's , it was gently closed after him by one of the domestics . He then joined his servant , who was waiting with two horses a few yards from the house ; and mounting one of them , rode swiftly off , followed by his man . Some of the soldiers , in eager expectation of his arrival , had placed themselves on the opposite side of the river , and they crossed over to the Hall together as quietly as possible . Strongly armed , twenty of them attended sir Eglamour into the first cellar , where it was settled fifteen were to remain , and the remainder were to be stationed outside , except one , that was to be centinel near the long passage ; and if the party advancing forward were to be attacked , he was to blow a shrill loud whistle , and all the soldiers at that sound were to rush forward to defend their comrades . They passed uninterrupted through the vaults and long passage which Rose and Kamira had formerly examined , and at length reached the first cavern , which appeared to them inhabited . On opening the door conducting to its interior , a sulphurous smell and thick smoke issued from it , and nearly suffocated them . At the same instant a low moaning attracted their attention ; but the vapours and smoky scent were so oppressive , that the men did not like to advance , till their commander exclaimed — Leave open the door , and the fume will disperse gradually . Sir Eglamour then pushed forward into that part of the subterranean retreat from whence the groans proceeded . Here reclined , on a bed ( described in the second volume ) the form of a lady in the meridian of life , apparently expiring , as her face was convulsed and distorted , as if writhing in the agonies of death . It was immediately conjectured by sir Eglamour and the men , that the charcoal they discovered had been used to air the cavern , which was very damp , probably from being long uninhabited , had been burned in too large a quantity , and set fire to some wood near . There was no discharge outward for the smoke , which , united with the suffocating fume and smell of sulphur , had overpowered the lady's senses , and nearly choked her by excluding a pure free air . Bear the lady from the cave into the hall , said sir Eglamour , to three of the soldiers , and send your comrades to supply your place . The change may recover her , and restore respiration , which appears almost gone . I know not if she is respectable — I fear otherwise ; but humanity demands that we shall give her all the assist once in our power . The men obeyed him , and after waiting till the other soldiers arrived , sir Eglamour entered , through a door opposite to that which conducted them to the lady , into a long narrow vault , containing an immense number of casks , some of them empty , but the principal part of them stored with smuggled brandy , Hollands , and wine . From this vault they went into another , filled with wearing apparel of every description , and foreign habits . Among these they distinguished the turban and garments of the unhappy Moor that Rose had seen extended a murdered corpse , and was doomed , after being saved , from a watery grave , to lose his life by the assassin of the cavern . Rose had described his dress , and the horrid spectacle he presented to her terrified sight , and sir Eglamour recognised his clothes from her descriptive account . A variety of guns , pistols , swords , and other instruments of dark murder and secret assassination , the vaults likewise contained . Their leader again addressed the soldiers , and observed that they must continue their search with the utmost caution and silence , and the mystery , he thought , would soon be disclosed , and success attend their researches and pursuit of the ruffians , who had committed such lawless and sanguinary deeds . They pursued their route onward without speaking , till they attained a small cave , with more barrels in it . This opened into the cavern where Rose beheld Mrs. Pryce and the stranger , who had excited an interest in her bosom , from his elegant superior air , though disguised . The sound of several voices in earnest discourse made the party suddenly halt , and attentively listen . By the conversation passing in the next cave , it did not appear that many persons were assembled there . Sir Eglamour whispered to his soldiers , that now , if they were resolved and courageous , an excellent opportunity offered for seizing the smugglers , that he supposed were collected in the adjacent cavern . They unanimously declared they were eager to attempt making the villains their prisoners , and at a signal given by him , rushed to the door , which they burst open , and discovered only six men meanly dressed . These men were seated at a table , with a good supper before them , and a plentiful supply of beer and brandy . The soldiers secured them without opposition , and sir Eglamour said to his companions , who were not employed to guard the smugglers — Let us pursue our examination , and continue the search till we arrive at the seashore . It is giving yourself useless trouble , sir , rejoined the most respectable looking of the smugglers ; you will not find any inhabitant of these caves but ourselves . I will turn evidence , and confess all , if you are , as I think , the friend of general Douglas and his family . You have guessed right , replied sir Eglamour , and there is an appearance of truth about you ; yet , considering your infamous situation and associates , and not knowing any thing relating to your character , it will not be prudent to attend to your assertions . Your motive may be to give time for a large body of your brother smugglers to overpower us . I shall go forward and examine every avenue and recess leading from hence to the sea , and if I find , on my return , that your veracity is unquestioned , I will then listen to your storey . Sir Eglamour now departed , after leav ing a sufficient number of soldiers to prevent the smugglers ' escape . He continued , with his remaining companions , his route through the damp , gloomy , subterraneous passages and dens , that had too long sheltered the most merciless villains , till they attained the desolate ruined house on the sea beach . They found his wretched abode quite deserted , with the appearance of its inmates having fled from it precipitately . They afterwards left the ruined house , and returned to the caverns , where they secured the entrance withinside so strongly , that it was impossible for any one to enter by that communication , and soon arrived at the spot they had quit . The man who had first addressed sir Eglamour was again the spokesman for the others , who looked very dejected , and not in the least daring . This smuggler informed sir Eglamour that it was twenty years since smuggling had been practised upon that part of the coast to a great extent . Lord Treharne , the brother of Mrs. Douglas , was connected with these men , who considered him as their chief , as they were under great obligations to his lordship , for allowing them the use of the caves for their retreat , where they could safely conceal their contraband goods . Here they also secreted the plunder they obtained from vessels that were frequently wrecked near the spot . In stormy weather , the most ferocious part of the gang , who were foreigners , brought from abroad by lord Treharne , watched for several miles along the coast , to pillage the wrecks , and rob any shipwrecked persons who gained the land with any property they had saved from the waves ; and the booty on these occasions was often very valuable . I was informed , continued the man , that my lord had many a long year since expended all his own , as well as his wife's fortune , and the want of a shilling induced him to league with our company , and add some people dependant on him , beside the foreigners , to our numbers , and his lordship's share of the money and spoils we gained was always the most considerable . The fisherman and his wife , at the ruined house , were in our secrets , and the whole scheme for carrying on our depredations was so well contrived by my lord , that we always escaped detection . Yet many unfortunate victims have fallen beneath the murderous hand of the most savage and bloodthirsty of our comrades , and were buried in the ground below the caves , so very deep that the bodies could not easily be discovered . The plunder we obtained in jewels and gold was very important , as well as the profits we got by importing and exporting contraband goods : but the part allotted to us , who were reckoned inferior to the most guilty , was very small , compared to the others . One of the principal men , who was in lord Treharne's confidence , whose life he had saved , took a fancy to me , and imparted all that he knew of his affairs , and every transaction , as he was certain , for my own sake , I should not impeach and betray the rest . When I joined the gang , added the man , I had not a thought of their being more than mere smugglers , and was tempted by poverty to follow this course of life . My wife , who was very dear to me , and five little children , were starving , as a long fit of illness had thrown me out of employment , and I was persuaded to make one of them , as it was their plan to augment their numbers as much as possible , and not a single man had ever proved treacherous . Colonel Guilford , who was killed , I am told , in London , was a friend of my lord's ; he was in the secret , and visited the caverns occasionally with him . All the noises and alarming sounds that disturbed the family at Treharne were made by our men , at the instigation of his lordship , who wished his relations to think the Hall was haunted , and cause such an aversion and horror of the place , that they would be inclined to forsake it for a more agreeable abode . The secret of the caverns was unknown to Mrs. Douglas , her bro ther only being acquainted with it , which made him the more enraged with his father for having left Treharne Hall to his sister , who might discover the subterraneous retreat , which would end in his and our total ruin : we had no other safe refuge where we could secretly shelter ourselves and our goods . His lordship likewise employed us to carry off Miss Douglas and her maid . The young lady was to have been placed under the protection of captain Courtenay , who had promised her uncle a large sum of money for this piece of service , though the captain did not know my lord was confederate with robbers and smugglers . However , I was so moved with Miss Douglas's situation , who I had always heard was a good young lady , that I felt for her as a father , having children of my own . I would not therefore give her up to captain Courtenay , whose intentions were , I was certain , very base , and would ill treat her from revenge , as I was told . These thoughts made me contrive her escape ; I saved her from destruction , and hope this action will incline you to pardon me and my companions here , who , no more than myself , ever committed a greater crime than that of smuggling a cask of liquour . For that good deed you have performed , in saving Miss Douglas from ruin , depend on being requited , replied sir Eglamour : but who is that lady we found nearly expiring in the cave where charcoal had been burning ? Her name is Pryce , rejoined the man , an old mistress of my lord's from his youth , who made him more wicked than he naturally was , as it is said . Lord Treharne received information that our retreat was discovered , and on the point of being examined . In consequence of this intelligence , he ordered one of our smuggling vessels to be prepared to convey himself , the foreigners , and most infamous of the gang , to some distant country . They packed up every thing of value , and would have taken myself and companions , but we declined going with them , not thinking the caves would be searched for some days , and from a wish to quit the gang for ever . How has it happened that Mrs. Pryce did not accompany lord Treharne ? I was told , said the man , that she followed him against his inclination from London , where he had discovered some of her sly tricks , and that she was not true to him . They had a meeting in the caverns , and a high quarrel ; he refused to give her money , or take her with him , though she vowed revenge . Her threats hastened his departure , and he embarked before daybreak yesterday morning . His lordship desired us to avoid her , and the wind being favourable , the vessel sailed directly ; yet I cannot help thinking that it was something more than the charcoal that reduced her , sir , to the state in which she was found . There was a decided air of truth in what this man advanced , which , united with the reflection that he had protected his loved Rose , and preserved her from danger of the worst descriptions , prepossessed sir Eglamour considerably in his favour . He desired the smugglers to finish their repast , and suffered the soldiers to regale themselves with the best contents of one of the barrels , and some provision that was in the cavern . While they were enjoying this refreshment , sir Eglamour resolved , in consideration of the service the man had rendered Miss Douglas , to suffer him and his companions to escape . They all assured him , that they had intended , when their comrades left them , to enter as seamen on board a man-of-war , for sailors ( at that time ) were much required for his majesty's navy . After the soldiers and smugglers had regaled themselves , the latter were conveyed and secured in the cellar , near the entrance into the Hall . Sir Eglamour now quit the damp cellars , to enquire after the wretched woman her criminal paramour had justly deserted . Her he beheld a stiffened corpse . Life had been allowed her to scrawl a few lines to Rose Douglas , when she felt herself dying in the habitation of the family she had irreparably injured . Conscious of her crimes , she asked her forgiveness , saying , that since the death of the unfortunate Jane , which had reached her ears , the most torturing remorse had deprived her of sleep and rest . Misguided by her , she knew that she had consigned her sister to an early grave , who might have lived , but for her blighting hand , in innocence and peace . The horror those thoughts inspired , and the desertion of lord Treharne , inflamed her senses , and in a moment of outrageous despair , she had taken a draught of poison , to end her guilty and miserable existence . The venomous potion was not , however , so speedy in its operation as she expected , and allowed her to confess her crimes , the only atonement she could make for guilt unequalled . The body of this wretched creature presented the most awful and appalling spectacle . Her face was hideously black and distorted , her hands were clenched , her eyes glared horribly through their glassy film , and a ghastly grin , caused by the convulsive agonies of pain and death , disfigured that countenance , which inspired aversion and terror , instead of pity . No tear of regret and affectionate sorrow bedewed her disfigured corpse . Let not the wicked think , exclaimed sir Eglamour , addressing Robin and Dolly , who were present , that retributive justice will never overtake them . It's but too true , replied Robin , shaking his white locks , that a punishment awaits them , sooner or later ; if not in this world , it will be more severe in the next . They all turned from this dreadful sight of justly-inflicted vengeance , with disgust and horror . A most violent storm arose , and the fury of the tempest , united with the darkness of night , and surrounding gloom , seemed congenial with this solemn punishment of wickedness unparallelled . Sir Eglamour descended again to the cellar , and found the men he had left to guard the entrance fast asleep . He rejoiced at the circumstance , and entered gently , to avoid disturbing their repose , and in a low voice addressed the man who assisted Rose to escape . I will allow you to fly from this confinement , said sir Eglamour , as I believe your assertions , provided that you and your associates pronounce a solemn oath to lead an honest life in future . I believe you are all truly repentant ; and that you may not be tempted , by distress , to rob or smuggle , I give you now a handsome sum of money for your present necessities . Should you be once more seized for improper conduct , no event can then save you from the arm of justice . They unanimously swore to observe his advice , and expressed their warm gratitude for his mercy and goodness . Sir Eglamour then conducted them secretly from the old mansion , by the back - door , unperceived by the soldiers , or any other person . In the morning their escape was discovered , but excited little surprise or concern , as the soldiers considered them merely as smugglers , and very inferior in guilt to their comrades who had fled . No intelligence or circumstance relative to the six smugglers ever transpired , and it was conjectured they conducted themselves afterwards with the strictest integrity , lamenting their former errors . The vessel in which lord Treharne embarked sunk to the bottom ( not being able to resist the raging tempest ) , on that memorable night when his guilty mistress breathed her last . Every soul on board perished , except one sailor , who had been engaged to assist in navigating the bark a short time before it sailed , and was unacquainted with the character of his employer . He alone survived , to relate the destruction of the vessel and those who were in it — a fate too gentle for a character so depraved as lord Treharne , who had early evinced a corrupt selfish disposition , and attained the highest ascent of treachery , cruelty , and unrelenting crime . He was childless when the storm consigned him to the unfathomed deep , and Felix consequently inherited the title of viscount Treharne , which his uncle had disgraced . The late lord Treharne's estates were so mortgaged and encumbered , that Felix found himself the noble representative of an ancient family , without an income to support his rank . But this inconvenience was unfelt , as his father came immediately into possession of the extensive fortune bequeathed by sir James Douglas , which enabled him to bestow sufficient wealth on Felix to allow his appearing as a nobleman . Helen Ramsay , and the hypocritical attorney , received the condign chastisement they merited for the conspiracy formed against general Douglas . In the course of their examination , it was revealed that even this plot was planned by lord Treharne and his corrupt mistress , whose rancour against ness , felt richly rewarded for having endured adversity with courage and resignation . To promote the lasting felicity of sir Eglamour was her first wish and intention , by every effort to please him , and secure his esteem and attachment . He was the only man who had ever excited her gratitude and admiration . His disinterested conduct , when he thought her portionless , demanded the former sentiment , and his accomplishments and manly beauty claimed the latter . Those beings who had compassionated her sorrows were not forgotten , and handsomely recompensed for the feeling they had evinced . Rose never blushed at the recollection of having experienced undeserved indigence and affliction . It was a superior gratification to her to assist the unfortunate , whose sufferings she poignantly commiserated , from having sustained similar distress . The splendid gifts of fortune were now distributed profusely on every individual of the Douglas family , and empowered them to obey the dictates of their generous inclinations . The earl of Arlberry presented his daughter with a munificent dowry ; and lord and lady Treharne passed half the year at the Castle of Towie Craigs , with general , sir Felix , and lady Douglas , where the excellent and friendly Moncrief frequently joined the party assembled , and visited England with them every year . The virtue and purity of Rose , whose character , enriched with every excellence , and captivating charm of manners and conversation , that could win and strengthen affection , attached her husband to her with heightened regard , that never weakened . Her parents were grateful to Heaven for giving them a child so truly amiable , and her friends found a soothing balm in her friendship , when affliction oppressed , and the purest felicity , when all their prospects were smiling . The victims of poverty and despair her generous charity relieved , while her humane attention softened their calamity . The fraternal love existing between her brother Felix and herself remained unchanged . They resided near each other , and were so frequently together , that they were like one united happy family . Kamira , in whose fidelity she had received the sweetest consolation , when heart - rending sorrow overwhelmed her with dejection and grief , resided constantly with her , nor could she be persuaded to quit her beloved lady Delavalle , as sir Eglamour equally respected and esteemed the faithful Esquimaux . To leave her young mistress , had she wished it , Kamira was now quite free , sir Felix Douglas having settled a liberal income on her , when he received his brother's fortune . With regard to the malignant and subordinate characters , who maliciously insulted , and endeavoured to injure the unsuspicious and unoffending Rose , there can be no punishment more severe than their miserable minds inflicts . The continual gnawings of an impure and upbraiding conscience is excruciating torture . Though the wicked triumph for a period , and exult in the success of their villainy against the innocence and virtuous , yet let them remember that the hour of keen remorse , requital , and vengeance , will arrive , and their culpable actions obtain an equitable reward . Finis . Printed by J. Darling , Leadenhall-Street , London . New Publications Printed for A. K. Newman & Co. at the Minerva Press , Leadenhall-Street , London . L s . d . Love , Mystery , and Misery , by A. F. Holstein , 2 vols 0 10 0 The Modern Villa and Ancient Castle , or the Peer and Alderman , by Miss Byron , Author of the Englishwoman , etc. 3 vols 0 15 0 Festival of St. Jago , by the Author of the Private History of the Court of England , 2 vols 0 10 0 Arthur Fitz-Albini , 3d edition , 2 vols 0 9 0 Louisa , or the Cottage on the Moor , by Mrs. Helme , 8th edition , 2 vols 0 10 0 Woman , or Ida of Athens , by Miss Owenson , 4 vols 1 1 0 Nocturnal Minstrel , or the Spirit of the Wood , by Mrs. Sleath , Author of the Bristol Heiress , Who's the Murderer ? etc. 2 vols 0 10 0 The Grey Friar and Black Spirit of the Wye , 2 vols 0 10 0 Euphronia , by Mrs. Norris , 3 vols 0 15 0 Houses of Osma and Almeria , or the Convent of Saint Ildefonso , by the Author of the Children of the Abbey , etc. 3 vols 0 18 0 The Beau Monde , or Scenes in High Life , 3 vols 0 15 0 Caroline of Lichfield , a new edition , translated by Thomas Holcraft , 3 vols 0 15 0 Memoirs of An American Lady , by the Author of Letters from the Mountains , 3d edition , 2 vols 0 12 0 Love , Hatred , and Revenge , a Swiss Romance , by T. P. Lathy , 2d edition , 3 vols 0 15 0 Devil upon Two Sticks in England , by the Author of Dr. Syntax's Tour in Search of the Picturesque , etc. 5th edition , 6 vols 1 10 0