A BONED TURKEY.

  A large turkey.
  Three sixpenny loaves of stale bread.
  One pound of fresh butter.
  Four eggs.
  One bunch of pot-herbs, parsley, thyme, and little onions.
  Two bunches of sweet marjoram.
  Two bunches of sweet basil.
  Two nutmegs.                   \
  Half an ounce of cloves.        }  pounded fine.
  A quarter of an ounce of mace. /
  A table-spoonful of salt.
  A table-spoonful of pepper.

Skewers, tape, needle, and coarse thread will be wanted.

Grate the bread, and put the crusts in water to soften. Then break
them up small into the pan of crumbled bread. Cut up a pound of
butter in the pan of bread. Rub the herbs to powder, and have two
table-spoonfuls of sweet-marjoram and two of sweet basil, or more
of each if the turkey is very large. Chop the pot-herbs, and pound
the spice. Then add the salt and pepper, and mix all the
ingredients well together. Beat slightly four eggs, and mix them
with the seasoning and bread crumbs.

After the turkey is drawn, take a sharp knife and, beginning at
the wings, carefully separate the flesh from the bone, scraping it
down as you go; and avoid tearing or breaking the skin. Next,
loosen the flesh from the breast and back, and then from the
thighs. It requires great care and patience to do it nicely. When
all the flesh is thus loosened, take the turkey by the neck, give
it a pull, and the skeleton will come out entire from the flesh,
as easily as you draw your hand out of a glove. The flesh will
then be a shapeless mass. With a needle and thread mend or sew up
any holes that may be found in the skin.

Take up a handful of the seasoning, squeeze it hard and proceed to
stuff the turkey with it, beginning at the wings, next to the
body, and then the thighs.

If you stuff it properly, it will again assume its natural shape.
Stuff it very hard. When all the stuffing is in, sew up the
breast, and skewer the turkey into its proper form, so that it
will look as if it had not been boned.

Tie it round with tape and bake it three hours or more. Make a
gravy of the giblets chopped, and enrich it with some wine and an
egg.

If the turkey is to be eaten cold, drop spoonfuls of red currant
jelly all over it, and in the dish round it.

A large fowl may be boned and stuffed in the same manner.