TO BROIL BEEF-STEAKS.

The best beef-steaks are those cut from the ribs or from the inside of
the sirloin. All other parts are for this purpose comparatively hard
and tough.

They should be cut about three quarters of an inch thick, and, unless
the beef is remarkably fine and tender, the steaks will be much
improved by beating them on both sides with a steak mallet, or with a
rolling-pin. Do not season them till you take them from the fire.

Have ready on your hearth a fine bed of clear bright coals, entirely
free from smoke and ashes. Set the gridiron over the coals in a
slanting direction, that the meat may not be smoked by the fat dropping
into the fire directly under it. When the gridiron is quite hot, rub
the bars with suet, sprinkle a little salt over the coals, and lay on
the steaks. Turn them frequently with a pair of steak-tongs, or with a
knife and fork. A quarter of an hour is generally sufficient time to
broil & beef-steak. For those who like them under-done or rare, ten or
twelve minutes will be enough.

When the fat blazes and smokes very much as it drips into the fire,
quickly remove the gridiron for a moment, till the blaze has subsided.
After they are browned, cover the upper side of the steaks with an
inverted plate or dish to prevent the flavour from evaporating. Rub a
dish with a shalot or small onion, and place it near the gridiron and
close to the fire, that it may be well heated. In turning the steak
drop the gravy that may be standing on it into this dish, to save it
from being lost. When the steaks are done, sprinkle them with a little
salt and pepper, and lay them in a hot dish, putting on each a piece of
fresh butter. Then, if it is liked, season them with, a very little raw
shalot, minced as finely as possible, and moistened with a spoonful of
water; and stir a tea-spoonful of catchup into the gravy. Send the
steaks to table very hot, in a covered dish. You may serve up with them
onion sauce in a small tureen.

Pickles are frequently eaten with beef-steaks.

Mutton chops may be broiled in the same manner.