TO ROAST BEEF.

The fire should be prepared at least half an hour before the beef is
put down, and it should be large, steady, clear, and bright, with
plenty of fine hot coals at the bottom.

The best apparatus for the purpose is the well-known roaster frequently
called a tin-kitchen.

Wash the meat in cold water, and then wipe it dry, and rub it with
salt. Take care not to run the spit through the best parts of it. It is
customary with some cooks to tie blank paper over the fat, to prevent
it from melting and wasting too fast.

Put it evenly into the roaster, and do not set it too near the fire,
lest the outside of the meat should be burned before the inside is
heated.

Put some nice beef-dripping or some lard into the pan or bottom of the
roaster, and as soon as it melts begin to baste the beef with it;
taking up the liquid with a long spoon, and pouring it over the meat so
as to let it trickle down again, into the pan. Repeat this frequently
while it is roasting; after a while you can baste it with its own fat.
Turn the spit often, so that the meat may be equally done on all sides.

Once or twice draw back the roaster, and improve the fire by clearing
away the ashes, bringing forward the hot coals, and putting on fresh
fuel at the back. Should a coal fall into the dripping-pan take it out
immediately. An allowance of about twenty minutes to each pound of meat
is the time commonly given for roasting; but this rule, like most
others, admits of exceptions according to circumstances. Also, some
persons like their meat very much done; others prefer it rare, as it is
called. In summer, meat will roast in a shorter time than in winter.

When the beef is nearly done, and the steam draws towards the fire,
remove the paper that has covered the fat part, sprinkle on a little
salt, and having basted the meat well with the dripping, pour off
nicely (through the spout of the roaster) all the liquid fat from the
top of the gravy.

Lastly, dredge the meat very lightly with a little flour, and baste it
with fresh butter. This will give it a delicate froth. To the gravy
that is now running from the meat add nothing but a tea-cup of boiling
water. Skim it, and send it to table in a boat. Serve up with the beef
in a small deep plate, scraped horseradish moistened with vinegar.

Fat meat requires more roasting than lean, and meat that has been
frozen will take nearly double the usual time.

Basting the meat continually with flour and water is a bad practice, as
it gives it a coddled parboiled appearance, and diminishes the flavour.

These directions for roasting beef will apply equally to mutton.

Pickles are generally eaten with roast beef. French mustard is an
excellent condiment for it. In carving begin by cutting a slice from
the side.
