TO PRESERVE PINE-APPLES.

Take fine large pine-apples; pare them, and cut off a small round piece
from the bottom, of each; let the freshest and. best of the top leaves
remain on. Have ready on a slow fire, a large preserving kettle with a
thin syrup barely sufficient to cover the fruit. In making this syrup
allow a pound of fine loaf-sugar to every quart of water, and half the
white of a beaten egg; all to be mixed before it goes on the fire. Then
boil and skim it, and when the scum ceases to rise, put in the
pine-apples, and simmer them slowly an hour. Then take them out to
cool, cover them carefully and pat them away till next day; saving the
syrup in another vessel. Next day, put them into the same syrup, and
simmer them again an hour. On the third day, repeat the process. The
fourth day, make a strong fresh syrup, allowing but a pint of water to
each pound of sugar, and to every three pounds the beaten white of one
egg. When this syrup has boiled, and is completely skimmed, put in the
pine-apples, and simmer them half an hour. Then take them out to cool,
and set them aside till next morning. Boil them again, half an hour in
the same syrup, and repeat this for seven or eight days, or till you
can pierce through the pine-apple with a straw from a corn-broom. At
the last of these boilings enrich the syrup by allowing to each pound
of sugar a quarter of a pound more; and, having boiled and skimmed it,
put in the pine apples for half an hour. Then take them out, and when
quite cold put each into a separate glass jar, and fill up with the
syrup.

Pine apples may be preserved in slices by a very simple process. Pare
them, and out them into round pieces near an inch thick, and take out
the core from the centre of each slice. Allow a pound of loaf-sugar to
every pound of the sliced pine-apple. Powder the sugar, and strew it in
layers between the slices of pine-apple. Cover it and let it set all
night. Next morning measure some clear spring or pump water, allowing
half a pint to each pound of sugar. Beat some white of egg, (one white
to four pounds of sugar,) and when it is a very stiff froth, stir it
gradually into the water. Then mix with it the pine-apple and sugar,
and put the whole into a preserving kettle. Boil and skim it well, till
the pine-apple is tender and bright all through. Then take it out, and
when cold, put it up in wide-mouthed glass jars, or in large tumblers.