TO BOIL CORNED OR SALTED BEEF.

The best piece is the round. You may either boil it whole, or divide it
into two, or even three pieces if it is large, taking care that each
piece shall have a portion of the fat. Wash it well; and, if very salt,
soak it in two waters. Skewer it up tightly and in a good compact
shape, wrapping the flap piece firmly round it. Tie it round with broad
strong tape, or with a strip of coarse linen. Put it into a large pot,
and cover it well with water. It will be found a convenience to lay it
on a fish drainer.

Hang it over a moderate fire that it may heat gradually all through.
Carefully take off the scum as it rises, and when no more appears, keep
the pot closely covered, and let it boil slowly and regularly, with the
fire at an equal temperature. Allow three hours and a half to a piece
weighing about twelve pounds, and from that to four or five hours in
proportion to the size. Turn the meat twice in the pot while it is
boiling. Put in some carrots and turnips about two hours after the
meat. Many persons boil cabbage in the same pot with the beef, but it
is a much nicer way to do the greens in a separate vessel, lest they
become saturated with the liquid fat. Cauliflower or brocoli (which are
frequent accompaniments to corned beef) should never be boiled with it.

Wash the cabbage in cold water, removing the outside leaves, and
cutting the stalk close. Examine all the leaves carefully, lest insects
should be lodged among them. If the cabbage is large, divide it into
quarters. Put it into a pot of boiling water with a handful of salt,
and boil it till the stalk is quite tender. Half an hour will generally
be sufficient for a small young cabbage; an hour for a large full-grown
one. Drain it well before you dish it. If boiled separately from the
meat, have ready some melted butter to eat with it.

Should you find the beef under-done, you may reboil it next day;
putting it into boiling-water and letting it simmer for half an hour or
more, according to its size.

Cold corned beef will keep very well for some days wrapped in several
folds of a thick linen cloth, and set away in a cool dry place.

In carving a round of beef, slice it horizontally and very thin. Do not
help any one to the outside pieces, as they are generally too hard and
salt. French mustard is very nice with corned beef. [Footnote: French
mustard is made of the very best mustard powder, diluted with vinegar,
and flavoured with minced tarragon leaves, and a minced clove of
garlic; all mixed with a wooden spoon.]

This receipt will apply equally to any piece of corned beef, except
that being less solid than the round, they will, in proportion to their
weight, require rather less time to boil.

In dishing the meat, remove the wooden skewers and substitute plated or
silver ones.

Many persons think it best (and they are most probably right) to stew
corned beef rather than to boil it. If you intend to stew it, put no
more water in the pot than will barely cover the meat, and keep it
gently simmering over a slow fire for four, five, or six hours,
according to the size of the piece.