TO ROAST A PAIR OF DUCKS.

After the ducks are drawn, wipe out the inside with a clean cloth, and
prepare your stuffing. Mince very fine some green sage leaves, and
twice their quantity of onion, (which should first be parboiled,) and
add a little butter, and a seasoning of pepper and salt. Mix the whole
very well, and fill the crops and bodies of the ducks with it, leaving
a little space for the stuffing to swell. Reserve the livers, gizzards,
and hearts to put in the gravy. Tie the bodies of the ducks firmly
round with strings, (which should be wetted or buttered to keep them
from burning,) and put them on the spit before a clear brisk fire.
Baste them first with a little salt and water, and then with their own
gravy, dredging them lightly with flour at the last. They will be done
in about an hour. After boiling the livers, gizzards and hearts, chop
them, and put them into the gravy; having first skimmed it, and
thickened it with a little browned flour.

Send to table with the ducks a small tureen of onion-sauce with chopped
sage leaves in it. Accompany them also with stewed cranberries and
green peas.

Canvas-back ducks are roasted in the same manner, omitting the
stuffing. They will generally be done enough in three quarters of an
hour. Send currant jelly to table with them, and have heaters to place
under the plates. Add to the gravy a little cayenne, and a large
wine-glass of claret or port.

Other wild ducks and teal may be roasted in about half an hour. Before
cooking soak them all night in salt and water, to draw out whatever
fishy or sedgy taste they may happen to have, and which may otherwise
render them uneatable. Then early in the morning put them in fresh
water (without salt,) changing it several times before you spit them.

You may serve up with wild ducks, &c. orange-sauce, which is made by
boiling in a little water two large sweet oranges cut into slices,
having first removed the rind. When the pulp is all dissolved, strain
and press it through a sieve, and add to it the juice of two more
oranges, and a little sugar. Send it to table either warm or cold.
