PUMPKIN CHIPS.

It is best to defer making this sweetmeat (which will be found very
fine) till late in the season when lemons are ripe and are to be had in
plenty. Pumpkins (as they keep well) can generally be procured at any
time through the winter.

Take a fine pumpkin, of a rich deep colour, pare off the outer rind;
remove the seeds; and having sliced the best part, cut it into chips of
equal size, and about as thick as a half dollar. They should be in long
narrow pieces, two inches in breadth, and six in length. It is best to
prepare the pumpkin the day before; and having weighed the chips, allow
to each pound of them a pound of the best loaf-sugar. You must have
several dozen of fine ripe lemons, sufficient to furnish a jill of
lemon-juice to each pound of pumpkin. Having rolled them under your
hand on a table, to make them yield as much juice as possible, pare off
the yellow rind and put it away for some other purpose. Then having cut
the lemons, squeeze out all the juice into a pitcher. Lay the pumpkin
chips in a large pan or tureen, strewing the sugar among them. Then
having measured the lemon-juice in a wine-glass, (two common
wine-glasses making one jill,) pour it over the pumpkin and sugar,
cover the vessel, and let it stand all night.

Next day transfer the pumpkin, sugar, and lemon-juice to n preserving
kettle, and boil it slowly three quarters of an hour, or till the
pumpkin becomes all through tender, crisp, and transparent; but it must
not be over the fire long enough to break and lose its form. You must
skim it thoroughly. Some very small pieces of the lemon-paring may be
boiled with it. When you think it is done, take up the pumpkin chips in
a perforated skimmer that the syrup may drain through the holes back
into the kettle. Spread the chips to cool on large dishes, and pass the
syrup through a flannel bag that has been first dipped in hot water.
When the chips are cold, put them into glass jars or tumblers, pour in
the syrup, and lay on the top white paper dipped in brandy. Then tie up
the jars with leather, or with covers of thick white paper.

If you find that when cold the chips are not perfectly clear, crisp,
and tender, give them another boil in the syrup before you put them up.

This, if well made, is a handsome and excellent sweetmeat It need not
be eaten with cream, the syrup being so delicious as to require nothing
to improve it. Shells of puff-paste first baked empty, and then filled
with, pumpkin chips, will be found very nice.

Musk-melon chips may be done in the same manner.
