BROILED HAM.

Cut the ham into very thin slices, (the thinner the better.) Soak them
in hot water at least half an hour, (a whole hour is better,) to draw
out some of the salt; changing the water several times, and always
pouring it on scalding hot. This process will not only extract the
superfluous salt (which would otherwise ooze out in broiling and remain
sticking about the surface of the meat) but it makes the ham more
tender and mellow. After soaking, dry the slices in a cloth, and then
heat your gridiron, and broil them over a clear fire.

If you have cold boiled ham, it is better for broiling than that which
is raw; and being boiled, will require no soaking before you put it on
the gridiron.

If you wish to serve up eggs with the ham, put some lard into a very
clean frying-pan, and make it boiling hot. Break the eggs separately
into a saucer, that in case a bad one should be among them it may not
mix with the rest. Slip each egg gently into the frying-pan. Do not
turn them while they are frying, but keep pouring some of the hot lard
over them with an iron spoon; this will do them sufficiently on the
upper side. They will be done enough in about three minutes; the white
must retain its transparency so that the yolk will be seen through it.
When done, take them up with a tin slice, drain off the lard, and if
any part of the white is discoloured or ragged, trim it off. Lay a
fried egg upon each slice of the broiled ham, and send them to table
hot.

This is a much nicer way than the common practice of frying the ham or
bacon with the eggs. Some persons broil or fry the ham without eggs,
and send it to table cut into little slips or mouthfuls.

To curl small pieces of ham for garnishing, slice as thin as possible
some that has been boiled or parboiled. The pieces should be about two
inches square. Roll it up round little wooden skewers, and put it into
a cheese toaster, or into a tin oven, and set it before the fire for
eight or ten minutes. When it is done, slip out the skewers.
