CLEAR GRAVY SOUP.

Having well buttered the inside of a nicely tinned stew-pot, cut half a
pound of ham into slices, and lay them at the bottom, with three pounds
of the lean of fresh beef, and as much veal, cut from the bones, which
you must afterward break to pieces, and lay on the meat. Cover the pan
closely, and set it over a quick fire. When the meat begins to stick to
the pan, turn it; and when there is a nice brown glaze at the bottom,
cover the meat with cold water. Watch it well, and when it is just
coming to a boil, put in half a pint of cold water. This will cause the
scum to rise. Skim it well, and then pour in another half pint of cold
water; skim it again; pour in cold water as before, half a pint at a
time, and repeat this till no more scum rises. In skimming, carefully
avoid stirring the soup, as that will injure its clearness.

In the mean time prepare your vegetables. Peel off the outer skin of
three large white onions and slice them. Pare three large turnips, and
slice them also. Wash clean and cut into small pieces three carrots,
and three large heads of celery. If you cannot obtain fresh celery,
substitute a large table-spoonful of celery seed, tied up in a bit of
clear muslin. Put the vegetables into the soup, and then place the pot
on one side of the fire, where the heat is not so great as in the
middle. Let it boil gently for four hours. Then strain the soup through
a fine towel or linen bag into a large stone pan, but do not squeeze
the bag, or the soup will be cloudy, and look dull instead of clear. In
pouring it into the straining cloth, be careful not to disturb the
ingredients at the bottom of the soup-pot.

This soup should be of a fine clear amber colour. If not perfectly
bright after straining, you may clarify it in this manner. Put it into
the stew-pan. Break the whites of two eggs into a basin, carefully
avoiding the smallest particle of the yolk. Beat the white of egg to a
stiff froth, and then mix it gradually with the soup. Set it over the
fire, and stir it till it boils briskly. Then take it off, and set it
beside the fire to settle for ten minutes. Strain it then through a
clean napkin, and it will be fit for use. But it is better to have the
soup clear by making it carefully, than to depend on clarifying it
afterward, as the white of egg weakens the taste.

In making this (which is quite a show-soup) it is customary to reverse
the general rule, and pour in cold water.
