A CHARLOTTE POLONAISE.

Boil over a slow fire a pint and a half of cream. While it is boiling
have ready six yolks of eggs, beaten up with two table-spoonfuls of
powdered arrow-root, or fine flour. Stir this gradually into the
boiling cream, taking care to have it perfectly smooth and free from
lumps. Ten minutes will suffice for the egg and cream to boil together.
Then divide the mixture by putting it into two separate sauce-pans.

Then mix with it, in one of the pans, six ounces of chocolate scraped
fine, two ounces of powdered loaf-sugar, and a quarter of a pound of
maccaroons, broken up. When it has come to a hard boil, take it off,
stir it well, pour it into a bowl, and set it away to cool.

Have ready, for the other sauce-pan of cream and egg, a dozen bitter
almonds, and four ounces of shelled sweet almonds or pistachio nuts,
all blanched and pounded in a mortar with rose-water to a smooth paste,
and mixed with an ounce of citron also pounded. Add four ounces of
powdered sugar; and to colour it green, two large spoonfuls of spinach
juice that has been strained through a sieve. Stir this mixture into
the other half of the cream, and let it come to a boil. Then put it
aside to cool.

Cut a large sponge-cake into slices half an inch thick. Spread one
slice thickly with the chocolate cream, and cover another slice with
the almond cream. Do this alternately (piling them evenly on a china
dish) till all the ingredients are used up. You may arrange it in the
original form of the sponge-cake before it was cut, or in a pyramid.
Have ready the whites of the six eggs whipped to a stiff froth, with
which have been gradually mixed six ounces of powdered sugar, and
twelve drops of oil of lemon. With a spoon heap this meringue (as the
French call it) all over the pile of cake, &c., and then sift powdered
sugar over it. Set it in a very slow oven till the outside becomes a
light brown colour.

Serve it up cold, ornamented according to your taste.

If you find the chocolate cream too thin, add more maccaroons. If the
almond cream is too thin, mix in more pounded citron. If either of the
mixtures is too thick, dilute it with more cream.

This is superior to a Charlotte Russe.